UNTITLED 
A Screen Play 
by Andrew M. Niccol 
.. A ~hlte title appears on a black screen. 
"As night-fal~ does not come at once, ne~t~er 
does oppression ... :C ~s in such twilight chat 
we all must be aware of change in the air 
-however s1i..ght -lest we become victims of 
the darkness. " 
~ustl~e William O. Douglas 
The title fades off, replaced by a second title. 
"1 noC only th~JJk that we will tamper wich 
Mother Nature, : th~nk Mocher wanes us to." 
'tlilliam Gaylin 
The second title fades off, leavlng a dark screen. 
The darkness gradually gives way to a dawning light: 
We are confronted wlth sight of a barren, empty landscape. A 
wlde expanse of wasteland. 
Suddenly, without warnlng, an elephant tusk falls from the sky 
and crashes onto the parched ground. The earth-shuddering 
impact causes the tusk to rebound once in slow motion before 
finally settling to the desert floor in a cloud of dust. ., 
The first tusk is quickly followed by a second, also dropplng 
from the heavens. It lands near the first. Another tusk 
smashes to earth several yards away. Yet another comes crashing 
into the foreground, 
·Finally the dust settles upon a graveyard of tusks. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
In another region of the wasteland, a forest of tree trunks 
suddenly rains down from the sky. The trunks thump to the hard 
ground, also rebounding In slow motion. Cleanly sawn, 
branchless, palm-like trunks, they come to rest in the dust onl' 
to be followed by a second cascade of lumber. 
(CONTINUED I 
CONTINUED 
~~en the dust finally clears, the felled tree trunks lie 1n a 
huge, log-Jam in the desert. 
D:SSOL';E TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
Next to descend from the sky, a torrent of firewood. One shower 
after another, crashing to the plain. Enough chopped lumber to 
fuel a thousand hearths. 
DISSOLVE TO 
A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE 
Joining the rest of the debris is a deluge of slate -sheets 
of shale from a great unseen quarry in the sky come slamming to 
earth. Some, of the pieces shattering. so~ rebounding into the' I' air until the granite litters acres of, landscape as far as the' 
eye can see. 
TITLES ARE SPACED APPROPRIATELY THROUGHOUT THE PRECEDING 
SEQUENCE. THE FINAL TITLE READS: 
THE NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE 
The camera commences a long. slow pull-back from the pile of 
elephant tusks. Gradually they are revealed as human 
fingernails magnified many hundreds of times. 
The tree trunks are mere hair follicles. The firewood. 
,whiskers. The slate. flakes of skin. 
INT. INCINERATOR. EARL Y MORNING. 
A naked MAN. thirties. seen in profile. is crouched upon a metal 
floor inside a small. brushed stainless steel tank. rubbing his 
skin raw with a wire brush. JEROME MORROW. 
Having completed his scrupulous ablutions. Jerome arches his 
lean. frame through the small. oval door of the metal room 
with practised ease. 
(CONTINUED) 
.. J 
CCNTINUED 
Securing tl',e I:hick, fireproof · .... ~ndowed door behu'.d h~mselE, :-:e 
I:urns a SW~l:ch 1:0 release gas ~nl:o I:he vacal:ed chamber. 7he gas 
~nsl:anl:~y ignJ..l:es in · .... hal: 1S now revealed 1:0 be a g:"eamJ..ng . 
modern sl:ainless sl:eel cusl:om-made incineral:or. 
We refocus on a MAGNIFIED CLOSE UP of his exfolial:ed flesh ~n 
the incinerator as it blackens, curls and burns. 
Jerome covers himself with a silk robe and steps into a pa~r of 
backless slippers. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. EARLY MORNING. 
JEROME emerges from the incinerator room into a large, luxurious loft-style condo containing a bizarre assortment of equipment -
arranged somewhat like a product~on line. 
Long, scrupulously clean metal work benches are arranged along 
one entire wall. Laid out on the benches in neat rows are I . 
dozens of plastic bags -some filled, some unfilled. Instrument, 
on trays -various types of t'weezers, scissors and other less 
familiar utensils. Round, stainless steel containers filled 
with hairs of differing lengths and other body matter. 
JEROME approaches another man slumped over one of the benches. 
EUGENE. He clutches an empty vodka bottle. He is snoring 
lightly -sleeping off I:he night before. As JEROME gently 
prises the bottle out of hlS hand, we are struck by the 
slmilarity of Eugene's face to Jerome's. 
Jerome pulls Eugene's chair back from the desk with surprising 
ease. A wheelchair - a modern, ergonomic design. Jerome wheels 
. ,Eugene to a bedroom and, with some difficulty, hauls the larger 
. 'man onto the bed, Through his alcoholic fog, Eugene feebly co­
operates -his paralyzed legs a particular dead weight. 
After covering Eugene with a blanket, Jerome enters a bathroom 
containing a surgically-clean stainless steel basin, sink, 
shower and toilet. 
Beside the toilet stands a large, industrial-style stalnless 
steel refrigerator. 
Donning protective gloves, Jerome opens the liquid-nitrogen 
cooled refrigerator. A cloud of condensed water vapor bil.lows 
out. Revealed inside the fridge are racks of labelled jars and 
silicon pouches -some containing a yellowish liquid, some a 
deep, red liquid. (CONTINUED) 
CONTlNUEO 
In fr~nt of one of the jars is a handwritten shopping list -
"TRUFFLES, CIGS, VOCKA". Jerome smiles to himself as he 
retr:eves the note along with one of the Jars. He checks the Jar's label. Satisfied with the date written there, he breaks 
the seal and pours the contents into the clear, silicon pouch of 
an IV-like device lying on the steel bathroom counter. 
He seals the pouch and checks the apparatus by open~ng the val'/e 
on its fine tube and squirting a small quantity of the liqu~d 
into the nearby toilet bowl, as one would test a syringe. We 
remain on Jerome's face as he reaches between his legs and 
inserts the pouch. 
Reopening the refrigerator, Jerome slides out a tray contai'ning 
neat rows of slim, fingertip-sized plastic sachets filled with a 
deep, red-colored liquid. He removes his gloves, selects one of 
the sachets and carefully adheres the sachet to the pad at the 
end of his index finger. He prepares a second sachet for nis 
middle finger. Jerome then applies skin-colored cover-up makeup 
to the sachets, blending them in with the color of his fingers .. J 
JEROME, still dressed in hl.S robe, climbs a large,. spiral 
staircase to the floor above. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM. EARLY MORNING. 
He emerges at the top of the staircase into a similarly farge, 
loft-style condominium. Through the floor to ceiling window 
that opens onto a balcony we see that dawn is only just starting 
to leak into the night sky. 
In the bedroom JEROME removes a shirt from a drycleaning bag. 
Printed on the bag -"Confidentiality Guaranteed". He emerges 
·.from his bedroom, dressed in a smart albeit unconventionally cut ··suit. He adjusts h~s t~e ln the mirror, careful not to disturb 
the sachets attached to his fingertips. 
IN'!'. INVESTIGATOR'S POOL. MORNING. 
A lone MAN swims a ferocious lap of freestyle in what appears to 
be a pool of enormous length -yet he never reaches the pool's 
end. We pull wider to reveal that the man is swimming against 
an artificial current in a pool barely larger than himself. 
Abruptly, the man stops and stands up -the fast-flowing currer 
instantly stilled. We glimpse the face of INVESTIGATOR LUCAS 
Thirties, he has a youthful yet rigid face. We have the 
irnpress~on that he does not swim for pleasure. 
.. EXT. C0NDCMINIUM CC::1E.EX. MORNI}IG. 
:t is still early as ~ERCME exits the building's underground 
parking garage in an irrrnaculate Studebaker Avanti and proceeds 
down the long straight drlveway. He exchanges a wave · .... ith a 
GARDENER triImling a lawn. 
The whir of the car's electric powered engine belies its 
conventional appearance. 
EXT. GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION. DAY. 
JEROME's car exits a highway and turns up the sweeping r~ad 
leading to the parking lot of "GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION". 
A sleek, modern, low-rise industrial compound boasting perfectly 
manicured landscaped gardens. 
INT. GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION. DAY. 
JEROME strides purposefully up to the entranceway wloth hundreds 1 
of other GATTACA EMPLOYEES. He carries himself wi t·h a' certalon' I 
arrogance, a cool detachment. All employees wear similarly . 
unconventionally-cut suits, short coiffed hair and robust tans. 
The Gattaca employees are a seemingly equal split of men and 
women and a diverse range of ethnicities. 
They filter through a row of channels supervised by SECURITY 
GUARDS. Each channel contalons a computerized security device, 
featuring a slim groove in which the employee places a finger 
under the watchful eye of a Security Guard. 
Jerome 
finger 
'. finest gives a polite 
in the groove. 
of needles and nod to a Guard 
His fingertip 
a minute blood as he places his index 
is jabbed with the 
sample taken. 
The blood specimen confirms Jerome's identity -an ID photograph 
appearing on a computer screen. 
Out of the corner of his eye, Jerome spies a young woman 
entering through the adjacent channel. She is also sneaking a 
glance in his direction -IRENE. Catching each other looking, 
they both quickly avert thelor eyes. 
As Jerome enters the computer facility of Gattaca Aerospace 
Corporatloon he furtively glances at the pin-prick puncture in 
his fingertip sachet. 
SCME'IIHERE IN CEEP SP.;CE. 
A GATTACA spacecraft sk~=~s an asteroid. 
the rock's grav~tational pull, the craft 
the black void. Then act"-,;:t ly the craft 
in mid-space, suddenly reverse d~rection 
again -the spacecraft tak~ng a slightly o 
Taking advantage cf 
slingshots deeper lnto 
and the astero~d f=ee~e 
and proceed fO.Hard 
adjusted course. 
We pull back to reveal that the journey is merely a highly 
realistic graphic representatlon on a GATTACA computer screen 
operated by JEROME. 
Appearing simultaneously alongside the computer animation is a 
seemingly never-end~ng coL;.mn of computer instructions for th~s 
celestial navigat~on -the lncomprehensible language of the 
computer programmer. 
140 *x20x08xSSx20x08xS$x20x08x$$x20{ 
150 *xOOxOOxOOxOOxOOxOOxOOxOOxOOxOO 
160 .xfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfexfe 
Jerome. is transported -plott~ng a path thr'ough the heavens. 1 
As his fingers fly across the keys he does not once. take'h~s . 
eyes from the scree~. . 
His is one of hundreds of ergonomically-designed work stations, 
arranged in ever-w~denlng clrcles in a huge, circular, well­
appointed if antiseptic room. Each curved desk conta~ns a 
computer terminal consisting of a keyboard and a slim, 
transparent screen behind wh~ch is seated a PROGRAMMER, 
deSigning software for the aerospace agency. At the center of 
the room is a donut-shaped command console, chairs facing 
outwards, from which operations are monitored. 
Floor to ceiling smoked-glass curved walls offer the only 
'.concession to nature - a tlnted view of a man-made, met~culously 
"landscaped garden. 
Jerome tears himself away from his screen and picks up a 
discreet mini-vac. He vacuums between the keys of his keyboard. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF, 50's, a shorter, official-looking man 
approaches. His assistant IRENE stands at his shoulder, 
DIREC'roR JOSEF 
You keep your work station so clean, Jerome. 
JEROME 
--Next to Godliness, isn't that what they say? 
The Director smlles at the notion and places a computer dlSC 
on Jerome's desk. (CONTINUED I 
CONTINUED 
DIREC:DR JOSEF 
I reviewed your flight plan. Not one error 
In a hundred thousand keystrokes. Phenomenal. 
(placing a hand on Jerome's shoulder) It's right that someone like you is taking us 
to the Belt. 7 
(glancing to notification on Jerome's screen) 
You have a substance test. 
The Director briskly departs, Irene in tow. At a nearby work station, a painfully thin programmer, NAPOLEON, perks up at 
the mention of the test. 
Jerome merely shrugs and pretends to reach down and scratch his 
ankle. However he surreptitiously produces one of Eugene's 
transparent specimen bags from his sock. An EXTREME CLOSE UP 
reveals the bag'S contents -flakes of skin, hair follicles, 
eyelashes, a fingernail. Cupping the bag in his hand to avoid 
detection, Jerome sprinkles the fraudulent body matter over his 
keyboard, desk surfaces and the floor around his work station. 
He opens his desk drawer and casually sc'att'ers the remainder of 
the bag. Finally he inspects a comb already laced with two 
hair follicles. 
Jerome rises from his work station and makes his way towards the 
testlng lab. 
INT. GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION -TESTING LABORATORY. DAY. 
White-coated LAMAR, forties, buzzcut, a man's man, checks 
JEROME's eyes with an instrument. Satisfied with his 
. ,examination, he passes a transparent plastic container to 
. ,JEROME. Standing directly in front of the technician with his 
back to camera, Jerome opens his fly. A steady stream of urlne 
begins to flow into the container from Jerome's hidden pouch. 
LAMAR 
(staring admiringly at the discharge) 
Jerome ... never shy. Pisses on command. 
You've got a beautiful cock. I ever told 
you that, Jerome? 
(CONTINUED) 1· 
CONTINUE!) 
JERCME 
(deadpan as he continues to urinate) 
Only every time I'm in here. a 
Jerome hands the container to Lamar who seals and labels it ~s 
Jerome refastens his trousers. 
LAMAR 
I see a lot of cocks. I speak from experience. 
Yours is a beautiful example. Why didn't my 
folks order a cock like that for me? 
LAMAR pours the urine sample into a high-tech device where it 
is instantly analyzed. The urine identifies Jerome while also 
registering a negative drug reading. The computer reads 
"VALID" . 
LAMAR 
(walking Jerome to the door) 
If everything goes to plan, this could be the 
last time I see you for a while. 9ne week to 
go. Please tell me you're the least bit excited. 
JEROME I'll tell you at the end of the week. 
Jerome departs. 
INT. GATTACA -RESTROOM. DAY. I 
JEROME enters the restroom and glances at the toilet stalls. 
Only three in the bank of twenty is occupied. He tarries at the 
',mirror above the uniform line of basins, unnecessarily 
" reknotting his tie. 
A toilet flushes and a COLLEAGUE exits one of the stalls. He 
and Jerome exhange a nod. When the man has exited the restroom. 
Jerome enters the man's vacated stall. 
INT. GATTACA -TOILET STALL. DAY. 
JEROME immediately feels around the back of the toilet bowl and 
detaches a secreted stainless steel container. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUE):) 
~ith surprising swiftness and dexterity, Jerome removes an 
extremely fine contact lens from each eye and drops the pa~r 
into the toilet bowl. He inserts two replacement lenses from 
the container and reattaches it in its hiding place. 
Jerome flushes the to~let and exits the stall. He checks ln the 
mirror that his new contact lenses are properly inserted. 
INT. GATTACA -CORRIDOR. DAY. 
Walking back along one of the long, glass-walled corridors, 
JEROME becomes aware of a peculiar no~se in the complex -
or to be more precise, a lack of noise. The incessant tapping 
of computer keys has st~lled. 
As Jerome gazes through the glass walled corridor, we see the 
reflection of his face, deep in thought. 
JEROME (VO) 
The most unre~rkable of events. Jerome 
Morrow, Navigator First Class, is only days 
away from a one year ~nned mission to 95·1 
Gaspra in che Oucer Asteroid Belt .. Nothing so 
unique in chaco Last year over one thousand 
cicizens from every walk of life embarked on 
some space mission or ocher. Besides, 
selection for Jerome was vircually guaranteed 
at birch. He is blessed with all che physical 
and intelleccual gifts required for such an 
arduous undercaking, a genetic quotient second 
to none. 
Jerome's gaze drifts to the sky. 
JERONE (VO) 
No, there is cruly nothing remarkable abouc 
the progress of Jerome Morrow, except thac I 
am not Jerome Morrow. 
EXT. BEACH. DUSK -THIRTY-ODD YEARS EARLIER. 
A starry sky. The camera tilts down to find palm trees 
swaying against a setting sun. 
JERCME (VO) 
I was conceived in the Riviera:. Not the 
French Riviera. 
(CONTINUED) ·1 
.. CONTINUED 
The camera c.lts down further to find a Buick Riviera parked ln 
a deserced beachfr~nt park~ng lot on a polluted stret~h ~t 
beach. 
,,-ERCME (Va) 
The Detroit '/ar~ecy . 
Through the car's steamed windows we see Jerome's mother ~nd 
father, MARIA and ANTONIO, early twenties, making love. 
JEROME (Va) 
They used co say :hat a child conceived in love. 
has a greater chance of happiness. They don't 
say chat any mere. 
INT. FAMILY PLANNING C~:NIC. DAY. 
MARIA, wearing a medical gown, lies on an examining table, feet 
in stirrups. A NURSE, forties, wheels an instrument tray 
towards her. Maria suddenly disengages her feet from t~e 
. stirrups and sWlng:; her legs of f the table. 
NURSE 
~~at are you do~ng? 
MARIA 
(shaking her head) 
I can't do thls. 
NURSE 
(misinterpreting the problem) 
I told you, the government pays. It's all 
taken care 0 f . 
t-'.ARIA 
No, you don't understand. I can 'C. 
The nurse places a comfortlng hand on Maria's shoulder. 
NURSE 
(reassuring) 
The doctor will give you something. 
1-' A>I. I A 
(removlng the hand, adamant) 
I'm not dOlng It. 
(CONTINUED I 
'" ,:8NTIN"'JED 
It~/l"g :0 ~Ke her see reasen) 
Honey I you I Ole :":',ace ~ne m~stake--:'1 
The remark stings ~ar1a. 
NURSE 
Isoftenl"g her tone) 
--I've read your profile. I don't 
know about the father but you carry 
enough hereditary factors on your own. 
Ipausel 
You can have other :hildren. 
Y.ARIA 
Iholclr.g her swollen stomach protectively) 
Not like th~s ene. 
NURSE 
Itry1ng to be diplomatic) 
Honey, look around you. ThE: world doesn't" 
want one Eke that one. 
Maria gets off the table and reaches for her clothes laying 
across a chair. 
MARIA 
lirate) 
You don't know what 1t will be! 
The nurse watches Maria as she dresses, genuinely bewildered. 
NURSE 
(calling out to Maria as she disappears 
out of the door) 
The child won't :hank you. 
INT. DELIVERY ROOM. DAY. 
'"e focus on a crucifix dangling on a rosary. Tilting up we find 
the rosary clasped between MARIA and ANTONIO's intertw1ned 
hands. 
JEROME ( VO) 
Those were early days--days when a priest 
could still persuade someone to put their 
faith in God's hands rather than those of 
the local geneci.=lst. (CONTIUUED) 
:'2 
CONTINUED 
Batr.ed 1:1 s· .... eat. Mar~a g~'Jes a final push on the deli"Jery ~ab~e. 
'~~le still attached to his umbilica~ cord. the heel of the 
~~ORN BABY SOY ~s i~mediately pricked by a masked ~ru~SE. 
minute drop of blood is inserted into an analyz~ng mach~ne. • .... 
Even as the baby is put into Maria's arms. page after page of 
data begins to appear on a monitor. pulsing warn~ng signals 
throughout the spreadsheets. 
Two assisting NURSES exchange a look. Antonio senses someth~ng 
amiss. 
AtlTONIO 
;./hat·s wrong? 
JEROME (VO) 
Of course, there was nothing wrong with me. 
Noe so long ago· I would have been considered 
a p.erfectly normal, healehy baby. Ten fingers, 
te,; toes. Thae was all ehae used-co maeeer. 
Bue now my immediate well-bei'rig .was not the 
sale concern. 
Antonio turns his attent:on from his baby to the data appearing 
on the monitor. We see individual items highlighted amongst the 
data -"NERVE CONDITION -PROBABILITY 60t", :MANIC DEPRESSION -
42t", "OBESITY" -66t". "ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER -89t"--
JEROME (VO) 
MY destiny was mapped out before me--
all my flaws, predispositions and 
susceptibilities -most untreatable to 
this day. Only minutes old, the date and 
cause of my death was alreadY known. 
Antonio focuses on a final highlighted item on the monitor's 
screen, "HEART DISORDER -99t -EARLY FATAL POTENTIAL.". 
"LIFE EXPECTANCY -33 YEARS". 
NURSE 
The name? 
(typing details in birth certificate) 
For the cert~ficate. 
MARIA 
Antonio--
(CONTINUED) 
I . CONTINUED 
ANTONIO 
(correcl:. ing her) 
--No, Vincent Anl:.onio. 
With a computer sl:.ylus he s~gns the nurse's handheld screen. 
EXT. TRACT HOME -BACKYARD. DAY. 
2-YEAR-OLD JEROME (REFERRED TO BY HIS GIVEN NAME OF ·VINCE:~'7· 
FOR MOST OF THE FOLLOWING FLASHBACK) running w~th a I:.oy rockel:. 
falls more in clumsiness I:.han fal:.igue. MARIA suddenly wh~sks up 
I:.he I:.oddler. 
MARIA 
(hysterical) 
Oh, Vincent, Vincenc., V~ncent ... I can't leI:. 
you out my sighl:.. 
Maria frantically listens 1:.0 her young son's heartbeat. For 
his part, Vincent appears surprised by the attention. Mar~~ 
places a porc.able oxygen mask. over Vincent's mouth. 
JEROME (VO) 
I was born Vincent Antonio Luca. And from 
an early age I came to think of myself as 
others chought of me -chronically ill. 
Every skinned knee and runny nose treated 
as if it were life-threatening. 
INT. DAY CARE CENTER. DAY. 
·.MARIA and ANTONIO drop off dark-haired, 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT al:. a 
"Day Care Cenc.er. 
JEROME (VO) 
And my parencs soon realized chat wherever 
I went, my genetic prophecy preceded me. 
Nhile HEALTHY CHILDREN play outside on tricycles, clamber over 
jungle-gyms and finger-pa~nt, the PRE-SCHOOL TEACHER shows 
Vincenc. into a room where CHILDREN WITH OBVIOUS DISABILITIES 
sleep on mats. 
Maria wheels around and marches out of the center with Vincent 
in her arms. Antonio follows close behind, pleading with h~s 
wife to see sense. 
(CONTINUED) 
~-E."C,'1E (VO) 
~hey put orr having any more children 
unt~l they could afford not to gamble -
to bring a ch~~d into the world in what 
has become the "natural" way. 
EXT. HOME. DAY. 
ANTONIO reluctantly shows off his spotless Buick Riviera to a 
prospective BUYER. 
JEROME (VO) 
It meant selling the beloved Buick. 
The two men haggle over the price while MARIA, holding VINCENT 
in her arms, looks on. Finally money and a pink slip are 
exchanged. 
JEROME (VO) 
MY father got a good price. 
the only accident he'd ever 
car was me. After all, 
had in chat 
As the BUYER drives away, Antonio shrugs to Maria to hide his 
disappointment. 
EXT. GENETIC COUNSELLI~G OFFICE BUILDING. DAY. 
ANTONIO, MARIA and 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT exit a packed commuter 
bus and enter a Genetic Counselling office building bearing 
the sign -"PRO-CREATION". 
INT. GENETIC COUNSELLING OFFICE. DAY. 
A GENETICIST stares lnto a high-powered microscope as ANTONIO, 
MARIA and 2-YEAR-OLD VINCENT are shown into the office by a 
NURSE. On the counter beside the Geneticist is a glass-doored 
industrial refrigerator containing petri dishes arranged on 
racks several feet high. 
GENETICIST 
(to the nurse, without taking 
his eyes from his binocular microscope) 
Put up the dish. 
(CONTINUED) 
CON'!'I~ruED 
' .... llile .~.nton1o and Mar1a :;;l<e a seat in front of a telev1s:,:::,. 
mcn1tor, the Nurse puts a :abelled petri dish under a ·,:.deo­
eq1..apped m1crosccpe. The Geneticist sW1ngs around ~n n~5 ::,.a~r 
to greet his clients. 
Four magnified clusters of cells -e1ght cells on each clus:er 
-appear on the television screen. 
GENETICIST 
Your extracted eggs ... 
(noting the couple's names from 
data along the edge of the screen) 
" .Maria, have been fertilized with ... 
Antonio's sperm and we have performed an 
analysis of the resulting pre-embryos. 
After screen1ng we're left with two healthy 
boys and two healthy girls. Naturally, no critical pre-dispost10ns to any of the major 
inheritable diseases. All that remains is 
to select the most compatible candidate. 
Maria and A."1tonio exchange a nervous smile. 
GENETICIST 
First, we may as well dec1de on gender. 
Have you g1ven it any thought? 
r-<.ARIA 
(referring to the toddler 
on her knee) 
We would like Vincent to have a brother ... 
you know, to play with. 
:.The Geneticist nods. He scans the data around the edge of the 
. screen. 
GEl'-IETICIST 
You've already spec1fied blue eyes, dark 
hair and fair skin. I have taken the liberty 
of eradicating any potentially prejudicial 
conditions -premature baldness, myopia, 
alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, 
propens1ty for violence and obesity--
MARIA 
(interrupting, anxious) 
--We didn't want--diseases, yes. 
(CONT:::~ruES : 
. I 
• I .!oJ'::": N I 0 
!more j~P:::lMt~ci 
'lie '",ere wonder~:-.g ~: ''''e should leave some 
thir,gs to char.ce. 
SE!,,"E7ICIST 
(reassur:ngi 
'{ou want to -;:'/e your child the best possible start. Bel:eve rne, we have enough irnperfectlcn 
built-ln already. '{our child doesn't need 
any additlonal burdens. And keep in mind, 
this chlld is st:ll you, simply the best of you. 
'{ou could concel'Je naturally a thousand times 
and never get such a result . 
. ;.N'Tt.1 NI 0 
(squeeClr.g Marla's handi 
He's rlght, Marla. That's rlght. 
Maria·is only half-convlnced but the Geneticist swiftly.moves 
on. 
GENETICIST 
Is there any reason you'd want a left-handed 
child? 
ANTJNIO 
(blank) 
Er, no .... 
GE."JE':'IGST 
(explalnlng) 
Some believe lt :s associated with creativity, 
although there's no evidence. Also for 
sports like baseball lt can be an advantage. 
ANTONIO 
(shrugs) 
I like football. 
GENETICIST 
(inJecting a note of levity) 
I have to warn you, Mr Luca, he's going 
to be at least a. head taller than you. 
Prepare for a crick in the neck in 
sixteen years tlme. 
Antonio beams proudly. 
(CONTItIUED) 
, 
I 
I . CONTINUED 
GE:'rETICIST 
:scanning the data on the screen) 
Anything I' 'Ie :crgot ten? 
l".ARIA 
(hesitant about broaching the subject) 
We want h~m--we ',.ere hoping he would get 
married and have children. We'd like 
grandchildren. 
GENETICIST 
(ccnspiratorial smile) 
I understand. 7hat's already been taken 
care of. 
(an afterthought) 
Now you appreciate I can only work with 
the raw material I have at my disposal but 
for a little extra ... I could also attempt to 
insert sequenceS associated with enhanced 
~ :hematical or musical ability. 
MAAIA 
(suddenly enthused) 
Antonio, the choir ... 
GENETICIST 
(interjecting, covering himself) 
I have to caution you it's not fool-proof. , -.' 
With multi-gene traits there can be no guarantees. 
ANroNIO 
How much extra? 
GENETICIST It would be five thousand more. 
Antonio's face falls. 
A.'ITONIO 
I'm sorry, there's no way we can. 
GENETICIST 
Don't worry. You'll probably do just 
as well singing to him in the womb. 
(rising to end the appointment) 
We can implant the most successful 
pre-embryo tomorrow afternoon. 
(CONTINUED) 
I 
I 
. ' CONTINUE':) 
:1aria is staring at the :our ~gn.l.fied cl'.ll11ps on :he screen. 
MARIA 
What will happen to the others? 
G~TICIST 
ireassur.l.ng) 
They are not babies, Maria, merely 
"human possibilities". 
Removing the petri dish from beneath the lens of the m.:.crescope, 
he po.:.nts out the feur minuscule specks. 
GENETICIST 
Smaller than a grain of sand . 
DISSOLVE TO 
INT. TRACT HOME. DAY. 
A red penc.:.l draws a ~4rk on a doorway at the height of a 
child's head. The child moves away and the name, "ANTON 11" .l.S 
written beside the mark by proud father, ANTONIO. 
JEROME (VO) 
That's how my brother, Anton, came into the 
world -d son my father considered worthy 
of his name. 
There is little physical similarity between ll-YEAR-OLD ANTON 
and 13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT standing beside him, apart from their 
._ height. In fact Vincent is mortified to see that his younger 
-brother's mark is a fraction of an inch higher than the mark 
beside his own name, 'VINCENT 13.'. V.:.ncent runs from the room. 
EXT. BEACH. DAY. 
13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT and ll-YEAR-OLD ANTON sit together on a 
windswept beach. 
Anton picks up a broken shell and deliberately slices the t.:.p of 
his thumb with the sharp edge. He hands the shell to 'Jincent 
who hesitantly follows suit. 
(CONTINUED) 
[ 
I "" .... ERC! .. !E '~/O ) 
By che C~xe we were plaYlng ac blood 
brochers I ~nderscood chac there was somechlng 
ver/ differenc flowlng chrough my veins. 
The two brothers press their thumbs together, merg~ng the blood. 
_-E.'WME (VO) 
And I'd need an awful loc more chan 
a drop if I was gOing eo gee anywhere. 
EXT. BEACH. LATER IN THE DAY. 
While ANTONIO and MARIA doze under a beach umbrella, ANTON and 
VINCENT enter the water, div~ng through the waves. From above 
we watch their two young bodies swimming beside each other 
beyond the breakers. 
JEROME (VO) 
Our favorice game was 'chicken'; When our 
parencs weren'e waeching, we used to swim outside 
ehe flags, as far oue as we dared. It was abouc 
who would gee scared and cum back first. 
Suddenly VINCENT Stops sw~mming, pulling up sharply in the 
water, exhausted and fearf'.ll. "e watches ANTON swim on into the 
distance. 
J EP. CI'{E ( VO) 
Of course, ic was always me. Anton was by far 
che stronger swi.~er and he had no excuse to fail. 
"INT. SCHOOL -CLASSROOM. DAY. 
A TEACHER gives a phys~cs lesson. 
VINCENT has his arm energetically 
1S never called upon. ~Jentually 
JEROME (VO) The bespectacled i3-YEAR-OLD 
raised at each opportunity but 
he lowers his arm in defeat. 
MY genecic scarlet letter continued to follow 
me from school co school. When you're told 
YOLl're prone co learning disabilities, it's 
sometimes eaSler not to disappoint anyboqy. 
l EXT. S7REET. NIGHT. 
~3-YEAR-GLD VINCENT st3or.ds at a cul-de-sac at t~e end of a ~c~.~, 
stra~ght deserted street. He places a basketball 1n the ~~dd~e 
of the street to represent the SUN and begins ':.0 '.mw~nd c.he r .. ..;~e 
reel of string attached to the ball. ll-YEAR-OLD ANTON 'Nalks a 
pace behind him. Several yards along the trail a bead 15 
threaded through the string to represent the planet !1ERC'JRY. 
ANTON 
How many astronauts are there, anyway? 
Vincent ignores him and continues to reel out the string. 
ANTON 
I bet I co~ld be one. 
Vincent stops and regards his younger brother with contempt. 
VINCENT 
You're standing on Venus . 
. Anton lifts his foot. There is a bead beneath it, 
INTI EXT. CAR I SATELLITE DISH. DUSK. 
VINCENT has developed into a handsome l7-YEAR-OLD. His 
spectacles hidden, he and a YOUNG WOMAN are necking in the front 
seat of a beat-up car, parked overlooking a huge satell~te dish. 
JEROME (VO) 
I was popular enough until it got around 
that I wasn't a long-term propositlon. 
·.The love-making intensifies. The YOUNG WOMAN moves down 
.. Vincent's chest and unzips his fly. 
JEROME (VO) 
Those who didn't know already could easily 
find out for themselves. It was certainly 
no problem coaxing the information out of me. 
We remain on Vincent's face as he climaxes. The YOUNG WOMAN 
turns her head away from the spent Jerome and, out of his 
view, trickles semen from her mouth into a clear specimen '/lal. 
JEROME (VO) 
I didn't blame them. You need to know if a 
prospective husband can qualify for a mortcrage 
or life insurance or can hold down a dece: ;ob. 
I ::-:7 . HC:-1E. :AY. 
::1 the ~~':~::g r~em ~:: :r.e~= :c,edest home, the dark-haired, : -­
'!ear-o~j, bespectacled ':::;:::::.rr s~ts opposl.t:e hl.s PARENTS. -:,r.e 
crest::,,~~e!'l ':i:1cent r.as " bcck en hl.s lap ent~tled "-::AREE?S ::1 
SPACE" . 
i:rjl::; :0 break it gently) 
Vlncent, you ~ave to be realistl.c. A 
heart cend~t:~c:1 ":ke yours--
·:::;CE.'lT 
--I den't care. :'11 take the risk. 
!·~C7':iER It's net JUSt yeu they have to be concerned 
about. Perhaps we could get you one of 
those new pace~~kers. They're not perfect 
but--
F.!.TItER 
(let:~:1g hl.s frustration show) 
Fat' God's sake, ','lncent, don't you understand. 
The only way ycu'll see the inside of a space 
shl.p l.S If yeu're cleaning it~ 
Vincent looks at hlS fat~er in disbelief. 
On a dinner table on t~e ether side of the living room, is-YEAR­
OLD ANTON, looks up frcm the bl.ological specimen he l.S studYlng 
wl.th a magnifying glass. 
~:.rr. PERSONNEL OFFICE -~AITING ROOM. DAY . 
. i7-YEAR-OLD VINCENT hl.des his glasses in his pocket as he enters 
a WAITING ROOM. He ga=es around at other APPLICANTS. 
~·EROME (VO) 
MY father was right. It didn't matter how 
much I lied on ~ resume, my real C.V. was 
in my cells. ~y should anybody invest all 
that money to Crain me, when there are a 
thousand other applicants with a far cleaner 
profile? of course, it's illegal to discriminate -
"genoism" it's called -but no one takes the 
laws seriously. 
As Jerome enters the o:::ice, 
Just touched. we focus on the doorhandle r.e r,as 
( CONTINUED I 
I 
t , . -CONTINUED 
JEP'C.'!E (VO) 
If you refuse co d~sclose, chey can always 
cake a sample from a doorhandle ... 
Vincent hesitates before shaking the PERSONNEL OFFICER's 
outstretched hand . 
JEROME IVO!' ... or a handsl1ake ... 
We focus on Jerome's envelope attached to hls application for.n sitting on the Manager's desk. 
~~E;:<OME ( VO) .' . even the saliva off your application form. 
Sitting opposite the manager, Jerome's face falls. The manager 
puts a clear, plastic cup In front of Jerome. 
JEROME {VOl 
But for the most: part lYe know· who -we are-. 
And if all else fails, a legal drug test 
can just as easily become an illegal peek 
at your future in the company. 
Vincent saves the Manager the trouble and exits the office, 
leaving the cup where it SltS. 
EXT. BEACH. DAY. 
17-YEAR-OLD JEROME walkS up the beach to find lS-YEAR-OLD ANTON 
sittlng with the YOUNG WOMAN Vincent had previously dated. 
JEROME (VO) 
I didn't blame Anton for his free ride. You 
can't blame someone for winning the lottery. 
The Young Woman hastlly departs. 
LATER the two brothers face each other on the sand. Anton lS 
the more statuesque of the two. 
ANTON 
(cocky) 
You sure you want to do this? 
Vincent's answer is to walk towards the water. Anton smiles 
mockingly at his brother's grim "game face" and 
follows. (CONTINUED) 
::-~m a:"\ aer~al 'JleW ''''e wac:!': ':I!ICENT and younger br::c~.e:-, .'-.:;:V::~l, 
3~lm teyc~d the breakers. 
~EF.OME I '.10 ) 
Ie was the last time we swam :ogecher. 
Ouc into che open sea, like always, 
knowing each scroke cowards the horizon 
was one we had Co make back co the 
shore. Like always, che unspoken concesc. 
'ile watch the two young men swimming stroke for stroke, The" 
swim Ear out, beyond the pOlont. Suddenly ANTON starts to 5 __ 'N, 
his strokes becoming labored until he becomes rnotloonless In :~.e 
water. He beglons to sl.nk ~ike a stone. VINCENT, :-eall.zl.ng 
Anton is no longer besl.de him, turns back to lend support. 
Vincent takes hlom in a lifeguard hold and begins to nurse him 
back to shore. Finally the two boys are coughed up into the 
shallows. They collapse, Just beyond the waterline, exhausted, 
gasping for air. ANTONIO and MARIA arrive on the scene. ANTON 
is the: first to recover while VINCEN'I' clutches his side, his 
face screwed up In pain .. Maria' kneels down 'and starts to 
adminster to Vincent but his 'father, Antonio, is unable to 
conceal his anger and conta~pt for Vincent. 
AN'!'CNIO 
Vincent, you damn fool! You could have killed 
Anton wloth your rl.diculous contest! Why should 
he risk his life to save yours?~ When are you 
going to get it :hrough your thick head--you 
can't compete with your brother! Why try?~ 
Maria takes Antonio aside. Anton and Vincent exchange a look. 
AN'roN 
Why didn't you say anything? 
V!~<CE.'JT 
Why didn't you? 
(starlong back at his father knowingly) It's okay. It'S the way they want it. 
JEROME IVO) 
It confirmed everything in the minds of 
my parents -that they had taken the right 
course with my younger brother and the 
wrong course with me. Ie would have been so 
much easier for everyone if I had slipped away 
-at day. I decided to grant them that wish. 
:::::r. HeME. !JIGHT. 
~VTCN stands at t~e ~ntlepiece i~ the dimly-lit llvlng room. 
He ga::es at a framed :amlly portrait: -'hncent:' s face has ~een 
t8r:1 out of It. :i.e suddenly spies \tINCENT exiting :he E::-or.t 
gat:e, carrying a su:.:case. M.ton goes to shout '/lnCent' s name 
but: the words don't get out. 
EXT. GATTACA. DAWN. 
A pick-up truck, packed · ... i th a C:'EANING CREW, pulls lnto the 
rear of the bUllding. They are no longer strictly the mlgrant 
workers we have come to expect but rather a mixture of 
ethnlcities -all m~~ers of a genetic underclass that does not 
discriminate by race. 
As VINCENT exits the truck and turns towards the camera, · ... e 
discover that he has now matured into the man we have come to 
know as JEROME. The only vislble differences are the glasses he 
wears and his hair, still naturally dark. 
JEROME (VO) 
Like many others in 
around a lot in the 
work where I could. 
half the tOllets ~n my situation, I moved' 
next few years,' getting 
I must have cleaned 
the state. 
We follow VINCENT through the course of a day. Cleaning 
rest rooms , toilets, plcking up lltter, sweeping, washing 
windows -gazing at the AEROSPACE WORKERS below. The building 
is part of the Gattaca faclllty, located near a shuttle launch 
site. Throughout the day, wlth the regularity of 747's, Vincent 
spies rocket ships In the distance, launching into the sky. 
Jerome's is the only head that turns and looks up. Long after 
. the sun has set, Vincent is still working. Another rocket ship 
.: lights up the darkness. Vlncent gazes forlornly into the 
heavens. 
EXT. GATTACA -GLASS WALL. DAY. 
VINCENT cleans a window from tr~ outside, staring in at the 
arrogant GATTACA EMPLOYEES entering the security channelS -
a sample taken from their fingertips. Jerome, in a trance, 
constantly cleans the same spot of glass. He fails to notlCe an 
Older Janitor, CAESAR, appear beside him. 
CAESAR 
'dhen you clean the glass, 
clean it teo well. Vincent, don't 
(CONTINUED) 
I (confused) 
' ...... nat do you mean? 
CAESAR 
(glanc~ng co the Gatcaca workers) 
You mighc get ideas. 
VDICENT 
But if the glass ~s clean, ic'll be easier 
for you to see me when I'm on the other 
side of iC. 
Caesar smiles aC Vincenc's cockiness. 
INT. GATTACA. DAY. :5 
VINCENT empties garbage into a dumpster adjacenc Co Gattaca. 
His attention is drawn co something in the trash. A discarded 
.manual on Celescial Mec~.anlcs and Navigation. He .wipes·.f::lod· 
residue off the corner. ' 
INT. ASTRONOMY & TELESCQPE SHOP. DAY. 
A forest of telescopes on cn.pods In an astronomy shop. 'JINCE~r. 
enters the store wich a bucket and squeegee and immediately goes 
co clean the storefront window. The STORE OWNER looks up from 
his tabloid -'STAR" magaz1ne. 
OWNER 
Where's Earl? 
JEROME 
He fell. Lucky 1C was only che second floor. 
The owner nods and returns to his magazine. When he looks up 
again one of his tripods 1S missing ics telescope and Jerome 1S 
nowhere to be seen. 
INT. IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT. NIGHT. 
JEROME returns to his bare apartment. He removes the cloth 
covering the bucket to reveal a dumpy-shaped telescope snugly 
wedged inside. He starts to pour over his collection of 
textbooks. Other tact ered space paraphenalia adorns the ',.,;a ,,1. 
(CONTINUED) 
.. 8£ cou:-se t.~e tes: :es~ sccre i:1 the wcrld 
','y'asn I t gc~" ..... g :~ ~e: ,-:-:e ':,,'1 t"i-;e front deer 
r...:.nless :: .~ad :.':e t':':cd :esc: :0 go wic:.iJ. It . 
EXT. GATTACA. NIGH". 
While his fellow · .... CRKERS 5~t. on t.he st.eps at t.he senllce 
entrance to Gattaca, ~ass~~g around an unlabeled bot.tle of ~iear 
liquor, VINCENT si~s sc~e d~st.ance away studying his text book. 
In the absence of a ~::;::-.;::'..::er, he practises typl.ng commands cn a 
keyboard handdrawn ::;~ :~e ::ap of a cardboard box. 
A tiny seedy-looking ::-.an, GEP.MAN, forties, appears from 
nowhere and takes a sea: =es~de him. 
GE:?_'W'J 
lofferlng his hand) 
Vincent, I'm German--
lanticlpatlog Vincent's response) 
That's my name. . 
He looks the apprehens 1 'Ie '!lncent up and down, 
'l:~CE~ 
;oJhat do yeu t.hlnk? 
G ::?~v.A.. '.J 
(shru.gs) 
I think I could do something 
(glanclng to t.he t.ext book) 
provided you knew what you're doing 
and you can meet :he terms. 
'hncent pulls a plastic e-meney card from his overalls. 
GEru'.AN 
You got a photo of yourself? 
'!lnCent produces a snapshot of hlmself -torn from the farnl.ly 
portral.t. German feeds the snapshot into the pocket-sl.zed 
computer he carries. "he picture is instantly scanned and 
appears on the computer's small color screen. German returns 
the photograph and hastily departs. 
I CONTI~ruE~ I 
. . ::NTlNUED 
:~£SAR, :~e elderly ~an~:=~, notices German's ex~t. 
:.;.ESAR 
(to Vlncent) 
I thought I told you not to get any ldeas . 
EXT. GATTACA. NIGHT. -' 
High up the side of a building, washing windows, 'IINCE~IT "auses 
occasionally to practise typing commands on his cardboard keys -
viewing a screen in his imagination -or the nlghtsky :tselE. 
He hears his name belng called. 
GERMAN 
"incent ... Vincent ... 
'/INCENT 
(staring' through his glasses) 
Ger.c~n, is that you? 
GERMAN 
Vincent, come down. I've found hlm. 
INT. IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT. NIGHT. 
GERMAN leads VINCENT through a maze of corridors. 
",-EROME (VO) 
For the genetically superlor, success 
is easier to attain but is by no means 
guaranteed. After all, there is no gene 
for fate. And when, for one reason or 
another, a member of the elite falls on 
hard times, the1r genetic identity becomes 
a valued commodi:y for the unscrupulous. 
One man's loss 1S another man's gain. 
He gives a conspiratorlal nod to another passing DNA BROKER, 
both men carrying thelr palm-top computers. 
GERMAN 
(enthuslastically reading from data on 
his portable screen as he walksl 
He has the heart of an ox. He could run 
through a Goddamn wall--if he could still run. 
Actually, he was a big college swimming star. 
( CONTItlUED ) 
.' ccmINUE:J 
......... .-..... -....... 1.-::. ••• 
I ~ope he's ~ct :~St a bcdy, 
\3ER..~~ 
No problem. Before he dropped out he ',.,as 
an honor student, the ~~ght majors--
'I INC EN:' 
How do I square the accident? 
GER."lAN !still reading data from his 
palm-top computer) 
It happened ~n Australas4a. He checked 
4n yesterday. No family complications, no 
record he ever broke his neck. As far as 
anybody's concerned, he's still a walking, 
talking, fully-productive member of sOC4ety. 
You Just have to get him off the pipe and fill in the last two years of his life. 
(correcting hi~self) 
Excuse me, your 14fe. 
German has stopped walking as if they have arrived. 
'lI NC EN'! 
(looking around for a likely 
candidate but finding none) 
'.-Jhere is he? :3 
German reaches towards a PARAPLEGIC sitting in his wheelchair 
in the stairwell dlrectly 4n front of them, his head slumped, an 
incriminating bong nestled in his lap. German pulls the man's 
. head up by the hair. EUG~~. Despite the patchy, unkempt 
':beard and thick glaze over his eyes he bears a striking 
similarity to Vincent. '14ncent holds a mirror beside the face 
of the lethargic Eugene to compare his own reflection. 
GERMAN 
(smiling confidently) 
What did I tell you? Which one's the mirror? 
VINCE:N'I' (still not fully convinced) 
That's the hair color in his profile? 
German checks an entry in his computer: • HAIR: BLONDE', 
( CONTI NUED I 
.. '{eah. 
(touch~~g h~s own dark strands) I'd have to bleach my hair. 
GERHAN 
(irr~tated, impatient) 
Why are you inventing problems? You t'</O 
are a couple of goddam clones. You look 
so right togethpr, I want to double my fee. 
'JU1CENT 
(a thought occurs, address~ng the 
paraplegic for the first t~me) 
How tall are you? 
EUGENE 
(deadpan) 
Four foot six. 
Vincent gr~ns, realizing that Eugene is referr~ng to his seated 
height. There ~s an instant connection between the two men. 
VI NCE!IT 
Okay, how tall did you ~sed to be? 
EUGENE 
(apathet~c, still under the 
influence of whatever he'S been smoking) 
Six one. 
VINCENT 
(to German, disappointed) 
He's too tall. 
GER1-IAN 
(shrugs) 
You can wear l~fts. 
VINCE.'IT 
Even with lifts I'm never that tall. 
VINCENT 
Every ID he's ever had will say six one. 
GER."'.AN 
7here's a way. 
.. INT. 3ACKS7REET ,S'\..,,?,GERY. ~::GHT . 
I:1 a. p::-i:nit;"le operatir-.g t~eatre. V~NCENT lies on a ,:able. [":':'.5 
cower ~egs masked off for surgery. The SURGEON sw~~ches C~ ~ 
surg~::~l saw and l:nes 1: '~p Wl~h handdrawn inc:slon :narks. 
Metal s~ruts are =eady to e:ongate h~s legs . 
INT. IN-VAID HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT. DAY. 
GE~~ wheels the dazed EUGENE into the apartment, c~ut:ered 
w~th space parapnenalia. One wheel of his rusting wheelcna:r :5 
flimsily held on '..Jlth wire. VINCENT follows behind on crut:::--.es. 
both lower legs ~n casts and cross-braces. Vincent signs che 
contract German puts in front of him. 
EXT. STREET OUTSI~E A BAR. DAY. 
EUGENE, glassy-eyed, str~des out of a bar, past camera and into 
the street. We hear a squeal of brakes and a sickening thud. 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT. DAY. 
EUGENE awakens with a scream, bathed in sweat, arms bound to a 
bed -the only real piece of furnHure in the room. '1INCE."IT. 
sitting on a crate beside h~m, soaking a towel in a bowl of 
water, is taken by surpise. Eugene continues to scream and 
thrash, fighting aga~nst h~s bindings. Vincent stuffs the towe~ 
~nto Eugene's mouth and holds onto his arms. 
JEROME (VO) 
I confess, ac :irsc I wondered if I had rescued 
a man who was already dead. 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT -BATHROOM. NIGHT. 
VINCENT holds EUGENE's head over the toilet bowl as he vomits 
violently. Eugene's paralysis and Vincent's broken legs make 
the operation doubly difficult. 
F:nally Eugene has nothlng left in his stomach to vomit. He 
drops to the floor in exhaustion. Vincent, also exhausted frem 
the effort of holding Eugene over the bowl, joins hlm on the 
broken linoleum. Both men stare up at the ceiling that carries 
a map of the constellatlon. 
\'INCENT 
You okay, Jerome? (CONTINt:E: 1 
thel:::- ::-,ut' .... al l:r.mobill.ty) 
Yeah. You ~a~~ :0 ~o danclng tonight? 
'hncent smiles. 
INT. HOUSI~iG P?O-:EC:- -.!..::.'.R~El'IT·. NIGHT. 
EUGENE turns his nose ~~ at :he plate of boiled meat and 
potatoes that V:;:~JCE~::- ~·..::s 1n :ront of him. Vincent catches ::-:e 
look. 
':::!CENT 
iJhat's wrong ''';l:h it? 
:::·":3E:IE 
I think I'd betcer choose the menu, After all, 
you're learn~ng how to be me, I'm not learnlng 
how to be yeu. 
·./:~JCENT 
(shrugs) 
Sui t yourself. 
EUGENE 
(c~/.ng :0 be more diplomatic) 
Llsten, I den'': · .... ant you to think I'm ungrateful 
--I know you and :hat llttle broker--what do you 
call him? 
German, 
EUGENE 
You're both go.ng to a lot of trouble--
(trylng to be tactful) 
Maybe you can con somebody into believing 
you're me to get your foot 1n the door--but 
once you're ~ns1de, you're on your own, I'm 
sure you're Slncere .. , 
Iglanc1ng to the space paraphenalla) ... but ! was being groomed for something like 
this myself. Even without the accident I don't 
think I would have made it. My point is--how the 
hell do you expect to pull this off? 
(CONT:~rCED I 
I , 
• 
J I , 
. " , " .-
C:)NTINUED 
Jer::me merely stares back as lof the thought of Eal.L.:re r:as :'.e·:er 
sc=ur=ed to him. 
V:~lC=':~ 
(shrugs and states it simply) 
I don't know exactly, Jerome. 
EUGE.-rE 
Ilaughlong) 
At least you're honest. 
(a thought occurs) 
Call me by my mloddle name--Eugene--If you're 
gOing to be Jerome, you may as well start 
getting used to it. 
NB: FOR THE REMAIllDER OF :-HE SCREENPLAY "VINCENT" IS REFERRED 
TO AS "JEROME". 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -" APARTMENT. NIGHT. 
JEROME 100;',"" through Eugene' s person~l,. ef fects, . including a 
photograph album. He is drawn" to a swimming medal lnside the 
album at a page displaYlng a photo of a wealthY, austere 
MOTHER -Eugene eVldently comes from money. 
Even as he wheels lnto tr-.e room in his rickety wheelchair · .. e see 
that EUGENE has the bearl.ng of someone of good breeding. He has 
a bag of blood on his lap. More blood loS being drawn from his 
arm through an IV. Eugene catches Jerome looking at the alb~. 
J:::ROME 
(guiltily closing the book) 
I have to know where you come from. 
E:JGENE If anybody asks, tell them the truth-­
your family disowns you. You are a 
disappointment, Jerome. 
JEROME 
Ireferrlng to Eugene's medal, impressed) 
What about this: 
EUGENE 
Wrong color. :t's silver. 
(CONTINUED) 
Et:GE:-rE 
(tosSlng ~~e bag of blood to Jerome! :t's not easy llv:ng up to this. 
Eugene ..... heels a ..... ay. 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT. DAY. 
JEROME practises ..... riting ..... ith his right hand, trying to 
replicate Eugene's slgnature. 
EUGENE 
i ..... heellng by, looklng over Jerome's 
shoulder at the signature) 
It needs ..... ork. 
JERCME 
(rueful) 
You had to be a right-hander. 
EUGENE· 
Noone orders southpa ..... s anymore, 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT. DAY. 
A pair of spectacles lie on the bed. JEROME, still wear:ng hls 
tWln casts, sits behind an optometrist's portable examining 
device. GERMAN hovering ln the background, an OPTOMETRIST 
custom-fits JEROME wlth gossamer thin contact lenses, 
JE."lOME (Va) 
MYopia is a dead glveaway -one of the earliest 
and most justifiable of the quality-of-life 
corrections. Anybody with impaired vision is 
certain to be suffering from all the other 
deficiencies of a ·nonadvantaged· birth. 
GERMAN 
(inspecting the lens in Jerome's eye) It's no good. I can see all edge. He may as 
well walk in there with a cane. 
.-INT. HCUS:NG PRO";EC:- -.:'.P.!..-q~ENT. :AY. 
The Optometn.st has been replaced in the livJ..ng room ,.,ith a 
BLACK MARKET DENTIST ,.,ho bonds JEROME's small, gapped teet:-t:o 
match EUGENE's perfect:y stralght, white plcket :ences. 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTM~~. DAY. 
Hair already bleached and cut to match Eugene's hairstyle. 
JEROME sits in a chal:' against a hastlly erected whlte paper 
backdrop. From his wheelchair, EUGENE puts the finlshing 
touches to Jerome's hair. He wheels himself out of the way. 
The final accomplice J..n Jerome's deception, a BLACK MARKET 
COMPUTER GRAPHICS DESIG~~R, takes Jerome's photo with a video 
camera. Manipulating the captured image, the Designer morpns 
Jerome's face into the :ace of Eugene. The resulting photo that 
spits out of a printer 1S neither one nor the other but an 
acceptable combinatlon of the two. 
INT. HOUSING PROJECT -APARTMENT. DAY .. 
EUGENE is starting to prepare Jerome's specimen bags for the 
first time. He winces ln paln as he plucks several halrs from 
his head. JEROME, new out of his casts, prepares Job 
applications. 
EtiGENE (still grlmacing, referring to the follicle3) 
You really need that much? 
JEROME 
More than that. You'll get used to it. 
EtiG~"IE 
(yanklng out another hair) 
God, what wouldn'c you do to leave this planet? 
JEROME 
(inspectlng a hair follicle) 
Leave? Just a few million years ago every atom in 
this haJ..r--in our bodies--was a part of a star. 
I don't see 1t as leavlng. I see it as going home. 
EUGENE 
(marvelling at Jerome's earnestness) 
God, you're serious, aren't you? 
Jerome 19nores him. Having learnt his lesson, he hands the 
envelopes to EUGENE to llCk the flaps. 
.. :~IT. HCUS:~;G PF.C";:::C":' -A?:".F.~E~IT. CAY. 
';::RCME is dc~ng a las;:-m~:-.ute cram on a geriatric ccmpu:er ::::r:I 
,:~e ~ate 1990's. C::ecki:-.g ::-.e tlme, ';ercme hurriedly Pl::KS-"P 
~~e s~~rt that EUG:::~~ tas been i=on~~g f~om a prone pcs~::=~ :~ 
the floor. 
JEROME It's not too late to back out. 
EUGENE 
You don't know '",hat a relief it is not to 
be me. Are you sure you want the Job? 
Jerome contemplates the question for a moment. 
JEROME 
What about you? ~~at's ~n this for you, Eugene? 
ElJGENE 
(referring to the bladder 
Listen, I bag this stuff anyway. 
. as well pay. my rent. bag he wears) It may 
Jerome hurries to the bathroom where, with some difficulty, ::e 
inserts his urine device for the first time. The new improved 
Jerome emerges into the living room ready for his interv~ew. 
INT. GATTACA CORPORATION -TESTING LAB. DAY. 
JEROME emerges from a bathroom and hands a TECHNICIAN his 
plastic cup full of fraudulent ur~ne and inserts ~t into the 
analyzer. 
TECHNICIAN 
(reading off the profile) 
Congratulations. 
JEROME 
(perplexed) 
What about the interview? 
TECHNICIAN 
(referring to the cup) 
That '",as ~t. 
::6 
':E:ROME. SC3.!"cely ab2..e ::: j:3-;;":':'Se h~s delight. ex:.ts ,'::iattaca, 
'::""/:r.g i.ot t.o st.a:-e at :he sl.;.per-b spec:.:nens "..,.rho are r.O·nI :':'3 
.::Q 1:' eagues •. 
...~=R':'.'-!E ; ·/C) 
7"he :najcr~:y c: people are now made-co-crder. 
;./hat began as a :r.eans co rId society of 
inhericab~e i~seases has become a way co desl~n 
your offsprl;;~--:.':e ":':':1e between healch and 
enhancemenc t1~rred forever. EYes can always be 
brighter, a VOIce purer, a mind sharper, a body 
stronger, a ~.:.:e ~onger. ~Jeryone seeks co glve 
cheir Chl~d :,':e besc c.'lance but the most ski~led 
genetiCIscS are cnly accessible to the pr~veleged few. 
In a nearby park MODES ~~ILDREN from MODEL PARENTS play 
together, 
~-=:HCME (Va) 
Anyone who IS the product of an al.tered 
DNA is proud":y refe~red co as a 'DAN', 'self -made ::-..3:1 or :NCirlCIIl', ':nan-child', 
INT, HOUS!NG ?RO~EC7 -A?AR~ENT. NIGHT, 
JEROME wheels EUGEtffi out of t~e~r housing project. He take~ ~n 
the neighborhood :or che ~ast tl~e. ~e focus on a POOR COUPLE 
cradling an INFANT. 
, .. :'ERCME (VO) 
Those parents who, for moral or, more likely 
economic reascns, refraIn from tampering wich 
their offsprIng's genetic makeup or who fail 
to abort a deprIved fetus condemn their children 
to a life of rcutine discrimination, 
We glimpse other PEOPSE 1n the neighborhood. They appear poor 
but, for the most part, physically normal. However a pall of 
gloom hangs over them. 
,,"£HCME IVai 
Officially they are called 'In-Valids'·, Also 
Known as '~oddllldren', 'men-of-god', 'faith births', 
'blackjack bIrt.'s', 'deficients', 'defectives', 
'genojunk', 'ge-gncmes', 'the fucked-up people'. 
[. "!N-vALIO' pronounced as ~n "an invalid license"] 
(CONTINUED) 
... 7E .. :;"C .. 'IvfE !' ~/O) 
71'Jey are the ".'leal thy ill". They den' t 
actually have anything yet -they .~y never. 
But since few of the pre-conditicns can be 
cured or reversed, it is easier to treat them 
as if they were already sick. 
As they enter a car, driven by 
young GIRL, 11, sitting on the 
staring forlornly into space. 
any deficiency, she is somehow GERMAN, Jerome spl.es a beaut 1. :".11 
steps of the houslng proJecc. 
While there is no outward slgn sE 
aware that she is damaged goods. 
Jerome glances in the rea~,iew mlrror. 
JEROME (VO) 
I am a member of a relatively new and 
particularly detested segment of society. 
-one of those who refuses to accept my 
genetic destiny. I am most commonly known 
as a "de-gene-erate" or a "borrowed ladder". 
Jerome looks to Eugene, also lost ,in hi's ,own thoughts. 
JEROME (VOl 
By means of a donor I have cheated the 
system for the last four years to open doors 
that would otherwise be closed to me. 
Jerome wheels Eugene into the palatial condominium complex where 
the two men now resl.de. 
INT. GATTACA. PRESENT DAY. 
':We return to JEROME's reflection in the glass. Other GATTACA 
EMPLOYEES are gradually gathering behind him. 
JEROME {VOl 
In the guise of Jerome Morrow I have risen 
quickly through the ranks of Gattaca. Only one 
of the Mission Directors has ever come close 
to discovering my true identity. 
We now see what Jerome has been gazing at through the window 
the whole time -the sight that has brought a hush to the 
complex. Through an open office door lies the body of a large 
man -the MURDERED DIRECTOR, lying where he has just been 
dlscovered. in a pool of his own blood. 
(CONT!NUED) 
CONTINUE:) 
,,-ERC.'fE ','0) 
Strange to c:unk, he :nay have :nore success 
exposing .'TIe i.~ death ::han he d~d in ~ife. 
Jerome wipes his eye and also goes to ~nvestigate. tie foc'.ls en 
an extreme close up of h~s EYELASH. Loosened by Jerome's ~and. it breaks free and floats gently down to the floor where "t 
comes to rest. 
INT. GAT'!'ACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION. MORNING. 
DETECTIVE HUGO, late-forties, wearing a cr~me-scene hygen~c su~t 
and gloves and a full clear mask -looklng more like a surgeon 
or a toxic waste worker than a detective -places a blood­
spattered computer keyboard alongside the Director's shattered skull. The indentations match the blunt corner of the keyboard. 
Hugo detaches the dangling keyboard from its parent computer and 
seals the likely murder '"eapon in a marked, transparent plastlc 
bag. 
A CREW of similarly-suited homicide detectives systemat~cally 
vacuum the surrounding office area with metallic, industrlal­
looking mini-vacs. Once each work space has been vacuumed, the 
transparent plastic vacuum bag ~s detached, sealed and labelled. 
OTHER DETECTIVES video the scene with camcorders. Video prints 
spit out of the cameras for instant inspection, 
EXT. GAT'!'ACA -LANDSCAPED GARDENS. DAY. 
A silicon police tape cordons off the crime scene. From the 
. landscaped garden, a crowd of GAT'!'ACA EMPLOYEES view the 
':proceedings through the glass walls. 
EMPLOYEE 1 
(staring at the Director's body) 
Awful. 
EMPLOYEE 2 
Yeah, awful it didn't happen sooner, 
Nervous smirks from nearby employees. We focus on JEROME. 
Standing slightly apart from the others, he does not appear to 
share the joke, or perhaps even hear it. Jerome watches, wlde­
eyed, as a DETECTIVE approaches his work station with a minl­
vac. A chill goes through Jerome as the detective's cleaner 
~asses over his desk. (CONTINUED) 
Jerome ~s distracted by a smear on ~he window, obstructing h~s 
v~ew. ~~thout thi~king, he breathes on the glass and rubs che 
smear 3.·"ay ',,: th h:s elbow. Nearby, elderly : an~ tor, :.~SA.:~ 
~otlces Jerome's fast~dious act and reads the panlc ln Jerome's 
eyes. DIREC7VR JOSEF suddenly appears at Jerome's shoulder. 
Standing a pace beh:nd the Director, computer notepad ~n hand, 
is IRENE. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
You're lucky to be getting out of this. 
JEROME 
We're stlll go~ng ahead as planned? 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
The launch window is only open unt1l week's 
end. Trag1c though this event may be, 1t 
hasn't stopped ·the planets turning. 
He glances towards a group of Detectives headed by HUGO. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
You'll have to excuse me, Jerome. 'I have to 
meet with the author1ties--naturally, we're 
co-operating :n any way, although I won't 
tolerate a ~aJor disruption. 
(as he departs) 
I wish I was gOlng w1th you, Jerome. 
As the pair depart, Jerome and Irene exchange a glance. Irene 
1S also aware of Jerome's unease. 
INT. GATTACA -CORRIDOR. DAY. 
We focus on JEROME's eyelash, still lying on the floor. 
A huge crescent-shaped hair that fills the screen. Suddenly 
there is a roar of a m1n1-vac and the eyelash is sucked up. We 
follow the eyelash's Journey, down the throat of the cleaner 
into the specimen bag where it is sucked against the bag's 
clear, plastic wall. 
INT. GATTACA -COMPUTER COMPLEX. DAY. 
The DIRECTOR's corpse is sealed in a plastic bodybag and wheeled 
away on a gurney. The blood and other body matter from the 
murder scene is sucked up by a portable wet-vac and the sample 
bag appropriately labeled. 
.. A chime sounds over the ?.;. :ollowed by an :lnnouncement. 
;'l~':Ct"rNCER (OC) 
Thank you :or your co-operat1on. Please 
return to your · ..... ork stations lmmediately. 
The PROGRAMMERS get to t!1eir feet en masse and begin f illr.g l:-.~:J 
the work room. 
EMPLOYEE 3 
(sarcast1c aside) 
What, no counselling? 
INT. GATIACA COMPUTER C8MPLEX -DIRECTOR'S OFFICE. DAY. 
A WOMAN ASSISTANT whose keyboard was used in the attack has to 
pause as a MAINTENANCE ~ORKER gives her work station a final 
spray to return it to its former pristlne condition. A new 
keyboard is plugged into her mon1tor to replace the one taken as 
evidence. 
INT. GATIACA COMPUTER COMPLEX. DAY. 
JEROME opens his desk drawer to check his comb, now plucked 
completely clean. He carefully places two of Eugene's hairs t:J 
the comb and scatters another bag of fraudulent matter around 
h1s work station. 
INT. GATIACA -SIMULATOR ROOM. DAY. 
In a large, bare room a simulator does a slow dance back and 
':forth on its hydralic legs, miming the path of the space 
craft Jerome will soon be aboard. The simulation ends and 
JEROME exits the simulator through a small door. IRENE 
hesitantly approaches, carrying a slim electronic tablet. 
IRENE 
Excuse me, Jerome. I'm sorry to bother you. 
Jerome turns, not displeased by the interruption. 
JEROME 
No bother. 
(CONTINUED) 
CSNTnlt:ED 
(~efe~~:~q to her ~otepad) 
I've been aSKed :::: ::::::r+Jlle a :og for the 
investigato~s --::-.ey · .... ant to know everyone's 
whereabouts last ~lqht . 
.JERCXE 
Last night? ~ · ... as at home. 
Irene makes a note wlth her stylus. 
Can that be, e~. '1erlf::.ed? :-Jere you alone? 
JERCME 
No it can't be 'Ie~lfied. Yes I was alone. 
Irene makes another ~ote. 
JEROME 
( ..... ry smile) 
Looks bad, doesn't·l:t, Irene? What about 
you? Where were i'OU last night? 
I was at home. 
JERCME 
Were you alone' 
Yes. IRENE 
(hesitant) 
JEROME 
(teasl.ng) 
So we don't know for sure about you, either. 
No. IRE.."'lE 
(wary, wondering where the 
conversatl.on is headed) 
JERCME 
Why don't we say we were together? , , 
~. 
IRENE 
(confused) 
Why would we do that? (CONTINUED) 
. . CONTINUED 
-'::::?,Cr1E 
I have better ~hlngs to do thlS week than 
answer the fOO:~5h questions of some flat:Qct, 
don't you? 
Irene contemplates the question . 
JEROME 
(gently pressing) 
Well, shall we say we spent the evening together" 
Irene 1S still unsure whether or not Jerome is serious. 
IRENE 
To be convinc1ng, Jerome, I would have to know 
what that was like. 
Irene turns and departs: Jerome watches her go. 
INT. EUGE~.~·S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
The paraplegic EUGENE. seated by the window, meticulously cuts 
a long fingernail lnto n~~erous clippings. He places the 
clippings in small plastic bags and seals them. He then begins 
to fill tiny sachets with blood. He turns as he hears. JEROME 
enter down the spiral stalrcase wlth the groceries. 
E:JGENE 
You didn't forget the truffles? 
JEROME places the items In the refrigerator in the bathroom and 
retrieves a bottle of vodka -the vodka incongruous-looking 
beside the blood and urine specimens. Joining Eugene at his 
':workbench, he pours them both a drink. 
EUGENE 
(senslng something amiss, trying 
to keep his humor) 
Who died? 
JEROME 
The Mission Director. 
EUGENE 
(misinterpreting the deadpan remark) 
You wish. 
(CONTINUED) 
.. CONTINUED 
,hey fou~d hlID In his office this morn~ng-­
beaten so bad :hey had to check his name~ag. 
Eugene takes in the news, a smile broadening across hlS :3ce. 
What an act 
coImtunl.ty. 
between you EUGENE 
of benevolence--a service to the 
So that's It. Now there's nothlng 
and ignition. 
JEROME 
He was stlll warm when they confirmed. 
EUGENE 
(confused by Jerome's attitude) 
This calls for a celebration. Doesn't it? 
JEROME 
The place is crawling with Hoovers. 
EUGENE 
So what? You didn't kill him, did you? 
Jerome shoots hlm a glance for the inappropriate remark. 
JEROME 
That's not the point. 
EUGE.."IE 
( scofflng) 
Hey, how much of you can be there? Even if the 
"J. Edgars" do find something, in a week-­
(glancing up to the night sky) 
you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction . 
(gently chiding) 
Come on, we've got to get drunk iImtediately. 
JEROME (still tempering Eugene's enthusiasm) 
You're going to have to earn your supper. I've got 
my final physical tomorrow. 
Jerome wheels Eugene's chair to a specially constructed platform 
that allows the wheels to spin in mid-air. Jerome tapes an 
electrode to Eugene's chest and attaches the wire to a slim 
recording device. Eugene begins to spin the wheel of the chair 
.faster and faster. Jerome monitors Eugene's steady heartbeat 
through a set of headphones. 
INT. GA,TI'ACA AERCSPAC::: CJRPCRA"rrCN -CCMPUTER CCMPLEX. ,;IGHT. 
The complex ~s vi"tually empty -only a handful of the hund"eds 
of PROGRAMMERS wo~king late into the night. IRENE app~oaches 
JEROME's wo~k stat~cn on the p~etext of delive~~ng some 
documents. Trying to act casually, she looks unde~ che papers 
on h~s desk, then opens the top desk drawer. 
We see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of the comb lying there -the t· .... o 
hairs trapped between the teeth of the comb. Irene removes one 
of the follicles and drops it into an envelope she ~s carrying. 
INT. 24-HOUR SEQUENC!NG LAB. NIGHT. 
"SEQUENCING-WHILE-U-WAIT". Similar to a l-hour photo lab, the 
store -little more than a booth -displays a price list on the 
wall. "FULL SEQUENCE -S80". IRENE waits in line with a cross­
section of other CUSTOMERS. She checks the contents of the 
envelope that conta~ns the hair. 
The YOUNG WOMAN in l~ne ahead of her allows the TECHNICIAN to 
take a swab from her full lips with a Q-tip. 
How old? 
Me? TECHNICIAN 
YOUNG WOMAN 
(confused) 
TECHNICIAN 
(mustering patience, referring 
to the Q-tl.p) 
The specimen. 
YOUNG • .... OMAN 
(proudly) 
I kissed him five minutes ago. A real good one. 
Overhearing, several PEOPLE in line snicker. 
':'ECHNICIAN 
(long-suffering) I'll see what I can do. 
The technician hands the swab to an ASSISTANT. The Young Woman 
is handed a number and takes a seat. Irene hands her envelope 
over the counter. She too is handed a number. We follow 
Jerome's follicle as another TECHNICIAN places it in an 
analyzing machine. 
.. 1NT/EXT. SEQUENC!~;G L;"3 / E'.;RK:~G LOT. NIGHT. 
The TEC:tNIC:::.!u'l returr.s t:-.e envelcpe to IRENE along · .... i:h a 
mlniature compact dlSC. 
TECHNICIAN 
(r~~arking on the profile result) 
9.4 ... ve~/ nlce. 
Irene does not appear to share the technician's enthuslasm. 
She emerges from the sequencing lab and enters her car. Tak:ng 
a palm-top computer from her purse, she inserts the disc :nto 
the computer. Jerome's counterfeit genetic profile appears on 
the screen. The details confirm her worst fears. 
EXT. MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB. NIGHT. 
JEROME and EUGENE, dressed to the nines, pull up in the car 
to a darkened doorway l~ a poorly lit street. A VALET appears 
out of the shadows. Familiar with the car, he goes immediately 
to the trunk to retrieve Eugene's collapsible wheelchair. 
Jerome tips the valet - a credit card wiped through a device. 
INT. MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB. NIGHT 
The chic, elegant establishment inside belies its dark,ened 
exterior. JEROME wheels EUGENE into a decadent dinner club 
full of an odd assortment of people. They are immediately 
greeted respectfully by MICHAEL, the owner and maitre d'. 
Jerome and Eugene are obviously regulars. 
MICHAEL 
Good evening, gentlemen. Your table is ready. 
(referring to Jerome's mission) 
Not long now, Sir. You'll be upstairs 
before you know it. We're going to miss you. 
JEROME 
Not as much as I'll miss your Stroganoff. I'd like to take one of your chefs with me. 
INT. MICHAEL'S DINNER CLUB. NIGHT. 
In a secluded booth JEROME and EUGENE toast from a bottle of 
1999 vintage Bordeaux. Eugene drinks longer than Jerome. 
Jerome dabs his mouth with a napkin. He fails to notice a 
minute FLAKE OF SKIN dislodged from his chin. We follow the 
flake as it comes to:rest beneath the table. (CONTINUED) 
~6 
C:JNT!!1UED 
:'ATER, Eugene and Jer::me · .... atch CO(j?LES dancing a samba on :!1e 
::iance f :oor. A WAITER '/ac·.l\.,r",s the table with a discreet, 
!1andheld miniature '/ac.l\.:Il\ wh~le a WAITRESS clears ohe places. 
She accidentally drops a Kn~fe onto Eugene's leg. 
~'JAI7R:::SS 
(aghast at the sight of his lifeless ~egsl 
I'm so sorry. :;~d: hurt you? 
(sm~l~ng, a trace of bitterness) 
Honey, if you'd hurt me, I'd be cured. 
Eugene, the worse for dr~nk, gropes for the wa~tress's leg but 
she easily avoids h~s cl~~y pass. 
::UGE:JE 
You want to meet a real-life spaceman? 
Jerome, always aware, scanning the club,_ suddenly spies 
NAPOLEON, his Gattaca colleague, on the other side of the 
room. Napoleon is ta)ung -a hit -from a vial ·concealed in his· 
hand. Jerome abruptly turns his back to avoid being recognlzed. 
JERCME 
Let'S get out of here. 
EUGEI'<E 
(knock~ng back his drink, 
m~sinterpretlng the hasty departure) 
You're right, there's more atmosphere 
where you're going. 
", INT/EXT. CAR. NIGHT. 
Driving along the freeway, Jerome's car suddenly dives down an 
escape road. EUGENE looks s~deways at JEROME. 
JEROME 
You drive. 
INT/EXT. CAR. NIGHT. 
The car careens around and around a small circular building -
a cloud of dust billowing up behind the car. We focus on a 
BRICK wedged against the car's gas pedal. 
(CONTINUED) 
: CONTINUED .~ 
" 
EUGENE is at the wr.eel. ';:::?CHE In : he passenger seat. 
The hard t'-1rn lS repeated with lncreaslng recklessness. ::'~:;er.e 
flghtlng to control :he buck~ng car. 
EUGEo'<E 
(screaming in both fear and exhilaratlonl 
I gotta stoP!! r gotta Stop!. 
JERCME 
Keep going!! Keep going!! 
Finally the car spins to a halt in a cloud of dust. When the 
dust settles it is revealed that they have been circling the 
base of a huge satellite dish in a desolate locat~on. 
EXT. SATELLITE DISH .. NIGHT. 
EUGENE lies on the hood of the car. leaning against the 
windshield.· :irinking from a bottle of vodka. In the 
background~ the unmanned satellite dish.' JEROME relieves 
himself against the bUl.lding at the base' of the satellite. 
EUGENE 
(gently chiding Jerome over the joyride) 
You idiot. You could ruin everything 
with a stunt like that. 
Eugene spies a spacecraft launching from Gattaca city. 
EUGENE 
(gazing into the night sky) 
At least up there your piSS will be worth something. 
(smiling ~t the thought) 
You'll all be showering in it. right? 
JEROME 
(zipping his fly) 
And drinking it. It's like Evian by the 
time it's filtered. 
EUGENE 
(referring to the rocket ship) 
What is that one? 
Jerome doesn't bother to look l.n the direction of the craft but 
merely glances to his watch. He joins Eugene on the hood of the 
car. (CONTINUED) 
CCNTINUED 
11.15 -:EROME 
(looking ac 
co che porco 
EUGENE his wacch) 
A maincenance crew. 
How long do you scay up there before you go? 
-:EROME 
A day or so. 
EUGENE 
(beaml.:lg) 
I still can't believe theY're sending you to 
the Belt--you of all people--never meant co be 
born, on a ml.ssion to discover the origin 
of life. -i8 
Eugene laughs to himself and passes the bottle to Jerome. 
JEROME 
You should be going instead of me. 
Jerome taps Eugene's lifeless legs with his foot. 
JEROME 
Up there they wouldn't be a problem. 
EUGENE 
(glancing heavenwards, shaking his head) 
You know I'm scared of heights. 
INT. CRIME LABORATORY -AUTOPSY ROOM. NIGHT . 
. : The body and clothing of che MISSION DIRECTOR, lying on a metal 
examining table is scanned with a blue-light magnifying 
instrument. Fingernail specimens are taken for analysis. In 
another area of the laboratory, the labelled vacuum bags are 
attached to analyzers and the contents sucked out and 
automatically identified. ID names and photographs of GATTACA 
EMPLOYEES begin appearing on a computer screen at high speed 
along with other personal details -all data aucomatically 
logged for later review. 
The photographs and personal details of JEROME and IRENE flash 
past, amongst the faces of other employees. 
(CONTINUED) 
: CONTINUED 
We focus on a magnified close up of JEROME'S EYELASH, still 
clinging stubbornly to the side of its specimen bag. We 
continue to follow its journey as it ~s finally sucked ~r.to the 
analyzer. 
INT. CRIME LAB -ANALYZER MACHINE. NIGHT. 
Inside the machine, a minute, cell-thin sliver ~s sl~ced :rom 
JEROME'S EYELASH and analyzed. 
INT. INVESTIGATOR'S CRIME LAB. NIGHT. 
A severed HUMAN TONGUE sits on a tray in a sterile, sealed 
chamber. Using gloves that protrude through the chamber's glass 
wall, face buried in a binocular eyepiece, the INVESTIGATOR 
takes a swab from the tongue. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(to the tongue, as he inserts the 
tip of the swab into an analyzer) 
Let's see what you' vegot to say fO.r yourself. 
A FEMALE ASSISTANT, looking on, hardly has time to smile at the 
remark before informat~on begins to appear on a nearby computer 
terminal. The computer gradually builds a portrait of the owner 
of the tongue using genetic predictors. The Investigator 
wanders over to the w~ndow as his Assistant reads the 
information from the screen. 
ASSISTANT 
The tongue is male. Mature. Blonde hair. 
Brown eyes. Light complexion, Between 
5'11 and 6'1. Pronounced Caucasian nose. 
Thin lips. Weak chin. Lobeless ears. 
Prematurely balding. Slightly bow-legged. 
Broad shoulders. Barrel chest ... 
Blind. 
Blind? Ipause) 
INVESTIGATOR 
(interest piqued) 
(mildly amused, checking the 
monitor for himself) 
The tongue is blind? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
ASSIS7A.'IT 
(confused) 
Who cuts out the tongue of a blind man? 
INVEST::GATOR 
(shrugs) 
Someone who is mindful that the blind still speak. 
The INVESTIGATOR is alerted by the chime of his nearby computer. 
On the screen, he discovers the face of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT 
and the accompanying flashing message: TRACKING IN-VALID 
883000181105-10 -NEW DATA -
INT. CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX -PARKING GARAGE. NIGHT. 
Having plugged his car into an overnight charger, JEROME pushes 
EUGENE in his wheelchair to the elevator. Bottle in hand, 
Eugene leans over and vomits on the ground. Jerome shakes his 
head resignedly. Eugene looks drunkenly up at Jerome. 
EUGENE 
(sarcastically referring to the pool of vomltl 
I'm sorry. Did you want it? 
Jerome meets EUgene's gaze. There is a trace of bitterness 
in Eugene's drunken smile. 
EUGENE 
Let me get it for you. 
EUgene bends down to scoop up some vomit with his hand but the 
elevator arrives and Jerome quickly wheels him away. Eugene's 
: head flops to the side as he passes out. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
JEROME unlocks EUGENE's condo and wheels his chair inside. We 
see their reflection in a full-length mirror as Jerome pushes 
EUgene to the bedroom. After removing Eugene's soiled clothing, 
he heaves the tall man from the chair and onto the bed. 
EUGENE 
(maudlin, gently sobbing like a child) 
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 
(CONTINUED I 
CmlT:::~ruED 
JERC)1E 
lattemptl:-.g to comfort) 
It's okay, Eugene. 
EUGENE 
You know I 'wasn't drWlk--I knew what I was 
doing when I walked in front of that car--
JEROME 
--What car?--Go to sleep. 
--I walked rlght ~n front of it. I was never 
more sober In my l~fe. 
Jerome looks at Eugene's lifeless legs, trying to cover his 
shock at the revelat~on. 
JEROME It's all nght. 
EUGENE . 
Igrabb~ng Jerome by the collar) 
I'm proud of you, Vincent. 
Eugene's head falls back onto the pillow. 
JEROME 
(smiling to himself) 
You must be drunk to call me Vincent. 
But Eugene does not reply, drifting into sleep once aga~n. 
Jerome pulls a blanket over him. 
On the verge of leaving, Jerome's attention is drawn to a wall 'on the far side of the room. Approaching the wall, near 
Eugene's mirrored closet, he detects a faint mechanical whir 
coming from inside the adJacent condominium. Jerome 
contemplates investigating but exits the condominium instead 
-climbing the spiral staircase to his own condominium. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDO -LIVING ROOM. NIGHT. 
JEROME fastidiously vacuums with an upright cleaner. Using a 
hose attachment he cleans aroWld a picture frame that contains 
Jerome's original computer keyboard handdrawn on the flap of a 
cardboard box. 
S2 
INT. GATTACA -COMPUTER CCMPLEX. DAY. 
In the vast room of COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS we pull-focus to 
discover that we have been filming the complex through the 
transparent specimen bag containing JEROME'S EYELASH. 
On the mezzanine floor overlooking the scene of the crime, 
the INVESTIGATOR holds the bag, transfixed by the lash. The 
lead homicide detective, DETECTIVE HUGO, finishes interv~ew~ng 
a GATTACA SECURITY GUARD and approaches the Investigator. 
A large telescope in the background. 
Although Hugo is deferential to his more youthful superior, h~s 
body language betrays his displeasure. Hugo clearly does not 
relish the Investigator's involvement in his case. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
I don't understand why you were dragged out 
here, Sir. It's hardly worth wasting your 
time--a no-nothing case like this. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(gently rebuking his subordinate) 
A ~n's dead, Detective. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
Of course, Sir. We're checking the entry log, 
alibis, grudges ... 
INVESTIGATOR 
Grudges? 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(looking out over the balcony) 
I look around, I see a lot of dry eyes. 
The Director was not ... 
(search~ng for the words) ... universally loved. He was leading the 
cut-backs in the program. You're looking at 
a room full of motives. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(shaking his head adamantly, 
referring to the bag in his hand) 
No, this is your man. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(not so convinced) 
With respect, Sir--it may be the only 
unaccountable spec~men but the profile 
suggests-- (CONTINUED) 
.. CONTINUED 
INVESTIGATOR 
--Whac about his profile? 53 
Hugo refers to a print-out of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT's proflle 
lncluding his Genetic Quotient. (The fifteen-year-old photo of 
Vincent now bears little resemblance to his assumed identity. I 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
According to thlS, he's a sick man. Congenital 
heart condition. Who knows how long the specimen 
has been here but there's an 80 percent chance 
the owner of that eyelash has already died 
himself from natural causes. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(terse) 
So there's a 20 percent chance he's not dead. 
Detective Hugo goes to comment further, then revises his 
remark in his head before speaking. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
Even if this Vincent Luca is alive, is it 
likely he could bludgeon a man to death? 
INVESTIGATOR 
No. Not likely. 
The Investigator's tone suggests that the identity of the 
culprit is no longer a matter for debate. There is an awkward 
pause before the Detectlve falls into step with his superior. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
I take it you're thinking along the lines of a 
robbery gone sour--a thief disturbed in the act? 
The Investigator merely shrugs. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(skeptical) 
Of course that doesn't jibe with what we 
found. This was an angry killing. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(glancing to the profile in Hugo's hand) 
Who knows with these "deficients"? His profile 
indicates a proclivity for violence. 
(CONTINUED) 
,. CONTINUED 
CE7ECTrJE HUGO 
(tryi~g to appear co-operative) I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for 
any Eam~ly or assoclate ccnnect~ons--
INVESTIGATOR 
--I've already run it. There's no record 
of any living relative. 
:JETECTlVE HUGO 
What a pity. 
It<VESTIGATOR 54 
(irritated, glancing to the sample bag) 
Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and 
found. All we have to do is locate the man who's 
minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself. 
We focus on JEROME at his work station. Although he continues 
to work, he clearly feels the presence of the INVESTIGATORS on 
the mezzanine floor behind him. 
A MEDICAL DIRECTOR approaches the programmer in the neighboring 
work station -NAPOLEON, the programmer Jerome encountered in 
the nightclub the previous evening. 
MEDICAL DIRECTOR 
Napoleon, you're late for your substance test. 
Napoleon looks up, ashen-faced. Jerome intervenes. 
JEROME 
Director, Napoleon's helping me today. 
-The Director regards both men suspiciously. 
MEDICAL DIRECTOR 
Well, you take lt for him, Jerome. 
The Medical Director departs. Napoleon, stunned by the 
repr~eve, approaches Jerome's work station and pretends to 
study the program on h~s computer screen. 
NAPOLEON 
Why did you do that? 
JEROME 
(exitl~g to the testing lab) 
Don't worry about it. 
. ' 
, , INT. GATTACA -TESTING LAB. ~AY. 
from behind we observe JEROME standing in front of LAMAR, 
issuing forth his steady stream of fraudulent urlne. 55 
EXT. GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION -WORKOUT CENTER. DAY . 
Twenty GATTACA EMPLOYEES, identically-outfitted men and women, 
run in a perfectly straight line towards the tranquil lake oE 
the picturesque grounds, never getting any closer to their goal. 
They run at a steady lOmph on twenty identical state-of-the-ar: 
treadmill machines sunken into the floor and arranged in a 
uniform row facing a floor to ceiling window. The strain is 
beginning to shaw on many of the faces. The heartrate of each 
employee is monitored via a wireless electrode attached to the 
chest. 
Outside 1n the sunshine the next batch of twenty EMPLOYEES 
limbers up in readiness for their physical. JEROME's only 
preparation consists of dragging thoughtfully on a 
cigarette while staring out at the man-made lake. His 
nonchalant attitude disheartens nearby collleagues, including 
IRENE who is amongst 'a group of workers "exc,used from the run 
by benevolent, over-protective TRAINERS. 
TRAINER 
You're excused, Irene. You may resume your duties. 
On the way into the work-out facility Jerome'stubs out his 
cigarette in a stainless steel ashtray. Only we are aware of 
the slim credit card-sized recording device that he furtively slips out of his cigarette pack and secrets in his hand. As he 
takes his place on one of the treadmills and adheres the 
cordless electrode to his chest, Jerome surreptitiously attaches '. h1S device to the underside of the running machine's control .. panel. 
INT. GATTACA -WORK-OUT OBSERVATION ROOM. DAY. 
From a mezzanine floor above the work-out room, LAMAR, the 
medical officer, monitors computer read-outs displaying the 
pace and pulse of the runners on each treadmill machlne. 
INT. GATTACA -WORK-OUT CENTER. DAY. 
One by one the GATTACA EMPLOYEES drop out until JEROME is the 
sale remaining runner. Several of the other employees stand 
around and watch Jerome run as they towel off. (CONTINUED) 
56 
CONTINUED 
He appears under lit~le stress, staring directly ahead, 
seemingly in a trance. As 'oNe focus on his chest, only 'oNe ~re 
aware of ::.he sound of his :'..:.riously pounding heart making a l~e 
of his calm exterior. 
INT. GATTACA -WORK-OUT ~3SERVATION ROOM. DAY. 
Jerome's heart registers a far more measured beat on the 
computer in the obserJation room. The DIRECTOR ~s at LAMAR's 
shoulder, beaming proudly. 
LAHAR 
lmarJellng at Jerome's heartrate) 
Six miles later ~t's still beating like a 
Goddamn metronome. I could play piano by that 
heartbeat of hls. 
The INVESTIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO enter the observation room, 
escort~d by IRENE. 
. DETECTIVE HUGO 
Director Josef, this is our lead Investigator, 
The two men exchange a polite handshake. However the 
Investigator is immediately taken with the SOLE RUNNER.with his 
back to him, on the treadrrull below. 
I}l'IESTIGATOR 
How often do you test, Director? 
Often. DIRECTOR JOSEF 
INVESTIGATOR 
I intrigued) 
Surely you know what you have. 
D!RECTOR JOSEF 
We have to be certain. Once they're up, we 
can hardly turn the baat around. 
On the treadmill below, Jerome glances to his watch as he runs, 
the distress starting to show. Caught up in the conversation, 
Lamar has forgotten to end the work-out. Remembering, he 
finally presses the "WARM-DOWN" button, slowing the treadmill. 
(CONTINUED) 
,. CONTINUED 
~'1AR (still marveling at Jerome) 
I swear if ! went to lunch and came back, he'd still be there. 57 
We focus on Jerome's recording device attached to the bottom of 
the control panel. It clicks to a stop, indicating that the 
bogus heartbeat recording has ended before the workout. 
The heartbeat monitor in the observation room suddenly races 
from 80 to 250 beats per minute. Lamar catches the discrepan~1 
out of the corner of his eye but before he can take a second 
look, Jerome has whipped the electrode from his chest. The 
physician shrugs it off as a glitch in the machine. 
The Investigator has turned his back on Jerome to face the 
Director. 
INVESTIGATOR 
We believe we have a suspect. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
What a relief. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(referring to the profile of VINCENT 
on Hugo'S computer notepad) 
This unaccountable specimen was found in 
the south wing corridor. 
In the room below, Jerome nonchalantly steps off the treadmill, 
stealthily retrieves the recording device from beneath the 
control panel and returns it to his cigarette pack. 
" He casually wipes off drops of sweat from the machine with a 
towel, briefly glances to Irene with the Investigators and ex~ts 
to the locker room. 
The Director idly regards the image of VINCENT on Hugo'S 
handheld screen. He does not recognize the face. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
An age enhancement is being prepared as 
we speak. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
(referring to his assistant) 
Irene will make it available to security. 
. . sa 
INT. GATTACA -LOCKER ROOM. CAY. 
JEROME · ... ears his assured smile all the way along the corrldor 
and into the now empty locker room. He exchanges a cheery 
greetlng with an exiting COLLEAGUE, enters a shower stall, . 
closes the door behlnd him and promptly collapses on the shower stall floor . 
The effects of the gruelling work-out are only now apparent. No 
longer sucking up the pain, he gulps air into his oxygen-starved 
lungs, his heart looking for a way through his tlghtened chest. 
He writhes in agony on the white-tiled floor - a brutal remlnder 
of the physical frailty he seeks to disguise 
EXT. GATTACA -GARDEN. LUNCHTIME. 
In Gattaca's perfectly landscaped gardens JEROME, dressed and 
recovered from his ordeal, joins his COLLEAGUES for lunch at one 
of the umbrella-covered tables. While most of the others pick 
at unappetizing salads and take their individualized medication, 
Jerome carries a steak sandwich on his tray. 
The sight of the juicy steak is greeted with enVlOUS looks frbm 
his colleagues. Jerome pretends not to notice and rubs it in by 
liberally sprinkling salt onto the meat. 
However when Jerome looks over towards IRENE, she avoids eye 
contact. When she abruptly gets up and leaves, Jerome follows -
thinking twice before depositing the napkin in the nearby 
trashcan. A janitor reaches for the napkin. It is the Old 
Janitor, CAESAR, from Jerome's former life. 
CAESAR I'll take care of that for you, Mr Morrow . 
• The two men exchange a conspiratorial smile. 
EXT. GATTACA -WIND FARM. AFTERNOON. 
A forest of wind turbines, supplying energy to the aerospace 
complex. However the blades of the turbines are motionless in 
the still afternoon. JEROME finally catches up with IRENE. She 
turns, unsurprised by his appearance. Standing beside her, he 
looks out over the complex as if he too has come for the view. 
We were JEROME 
(eyes fixed on the view) 
looking at each other. You stopped. 
(CONTINUED) 
, 
• , 
• 
t CONTINUE;D 
Irene, also keeps her gaze ahead. 
:"E~'E 
I'm sorry. I didn·t ~ean anything . 
.JEROME 
(shrugging as if it makes 
no dif:erence to him) 
We were Just look~ng. 
IRENE 
I know about you . 59 
Jerome turns to her, startled, trying to read her face. Irene 
takes a deep breath and abruptly plucks a long, dark hair from 
her head. 
IRENE 
(offering the hair to Jerome) 
Here, take it. 
Jerome, confused, takes the hair -more in reflex than intent. 
IRENE 
(a challenge) 
If you're st~ll interested, let me know. 
Jerome contemplates the hair in his fingers for a moment, then 
deliberately lets it fall to the ground. 
JEROME 
(never taking his eyes from her) 
Sorry, the wind caught it . 
• Irene meets his gaze. There is not a breath of wind. The 
hair lies, plainly visible on the ground. 
EXT. GATTACA AEROSPACE COMPLEX. AFTERNOON. 
As JEROME and IRENE walk between the wind turbines, Jerome 
pretends not to notice that Irene keeps furtively checking the 
pulse on her wrist. They pause in the shade. 
JEROME 
(as if making conversation) 
Have they found our friend? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTlNUE'D 
Friend? IRENE 
JEROME 
( shrugs) 
It was a mercy-killing after all. 
IRENE 
They found an eyelash. 
JEROME 
Where? 
IRENE 
In the South wing. 
JEROME 
Does it have a name? 
IRENE 
Just some In-Valid. Vincent--· 
(trying to come up with the last name) 
--somebody. 50 
Jerome turns away to disguise his alarm. He quickly .recovers. 
JEROME 
Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene. 
IRENE 
(a smile playing around her lips) 
You celebrate, Jerome? 
• INT. EUGENE'S CONDO. NIGHT. 
EUGENE talks irritably on the phone, examining a container from 
a newly opened case of hair bleach. 
EUGENE 
(into phone) 
--I know what I ordered. I ordered "Honey 
Dawn" and you sent me "Summer Wheat". 
JEROME descends the staircase, taking the steps two at a time. 
He immediately goes to the refrigerator, removing trays of 
samples. Eugene abruptly hangs up the phone. 
(CONTINUED) 
• 
[ 
.. CONTINUED 
J'ERGME lOCI 
Call Gennan. 
EUGENE 
Any particular reason? 
JEROME 
(collect~ng up sample bags from 
the work bench) 
We can't stay here. 
Et:GENE 
What are you talk~ng about? 
':EROME 
They think I offed the Director. 61 
Eugene wheels himself over to Jerome, unconcerned. 
EUGENE 
What makes them think that? 
..JEROME 
They found my eyelash. 
EUGENE 
(a flicker of anxiety) 
Where? 
JEROME 
In a corridor. 
EUGENE 
(blase once again) 
Could be worse. They could have found it in your eye. 
Jerome half-smiles despite the situation. 
JEROME 
(resuming his collection of samples) 
Come on--we're taking off. 
EUGENE 
I'm not going anywhere. Less than a week to go. 
Not on your life--
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
JEROME 
--You don't understand, they'll make the 
connection, they'~~ hoover aga~n. We should 
cut our losses. 
EUGENE 62 
(angrily grabbing a tray from Jerome's hands) 
Where ~s your head, Jerome? You're acting 
like a guilty man. They won't marry the eyelash 
to you. They won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years . 
.JEROME 
They'll recognize me. 
EUGENE 
(scoffing) 
How could they recognize you? 
(referring to the torn photo of 
20-year-old Vincent ot:! the wall) 
I don't recognize you. Anyway, you don't ·have a 
choice. You run, you may as well sign a confession, 
turn us both in right now. No, we stick this out-­
find out what we can but change nothing. This is 
a minor inconven~ence is all it is. We've taken 
worse heat than this. 
(angry now) 
Jesus, if I'd known you were going to go 
belly up on me at the last fucking gasp, I 
wouldn't have bothered. You can't quit on me 
now. I've put too much into this. 
(returning the samples to the fridge) 
Besides, this stuff is mine. I had other offers, 
you know. I could've have rented myself out to 
somebody with a spine. vou want me to wheel in 
there and finish the job myself? 
(meeting Jerome's gaze) 
We'll take off all right, from pad 18 just like 
we planned. 
Jerome slumps down in a chair, Eugene's tirade starting to get 
to him. 
And keep your 
they belong. EUGENE 
lashes on your lids 
How could you be so where 
careless? 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
JEROME 
I'm sorry. 
(reluctant admisslon! 
I think I was crying. 
Eugene 1S uncomfortable at the notion. 
EUGENE 
Well save those tears. 63 
Jerome shrugs awkwardly and pours them both a drink. 
JEROME 
You really had other offers? 
EUGENE 
( shrugs! 
I'm sure I could have. 
INT. CONDOMINIUM -INClNERATO!'.. NIGHT. 
The naked JEROME scrapes away at his skin with even greater 
ferocity than usual. After exiting the incinerator, he deposits all the incr1minating trash he has collected during the day into 
the furnace and ignites the gas. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
from outside, a car horn sounds. JEROME, ln 
spectacles, abruptly enters the condominium. 
closet and starts searching through Eugene's 
JEROME 
Mind if I borrow a tie? a formal suit and 
He goes to a 
clothes. 
EUGENE is more interested in the car parked outside the 
condominium. IRENE sits in a convertible Citroen OS, dressed 1n 
a classic but provocative black suit. Unaware that she is being 
observed she touches up her lipstick in the rearview mirror. 
EUGENE 
So it's not just the Hoovers who've got 
you rattled. 
JEROME 
You're the one who said not to change 
She's my ear to the investigation. anything. 
(CONTINUED! 
CONTlNUF;D 
EUGENE 
(skeptical) 
Is that all? 
JEROME 
I've got enough on my m~nd without that. 
EUGENE 
If you say so. 
(referring to the ties in Jerome's hand) 
The stripe. 
JEROME 
(agreeing with the selection) 
Good choice. 64 
Jerome fumbles with the knot. From his chair, Eugene knots 
Jerome's tie for him. Jerome is intrigued that for once Eugene 
is abstaining -he has not touched his drink. 
JEROME. 
Not thirsty? 
(referring to the fridge) 
We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week. 
EUGENE 
I don't feel too good. I think I'm still 
drunk from last night. 
JEROME 
Never stopped you before. 
(regarding Eugene's head) 
And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. 
Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure 
you wouldn't go bald. 
EUGENE 
If I were you I'd worry about myself. 
(nodding to Jerome's spectacles) 
Haven't you forgotten something? 
Jerome pockets the spectacles and enters the bathroom for his 
contact lenses. The horn sounds outside the window a second 
time and Jerome hastily exits. We stay with Eugene. Irene 
catches a glimpse of h~m before he moves away from the w~ndow. 
Jerome emerges from the building. 
(CONTINUED) 
t 
. . 
r 
r 65 
CONTINUED 
As the couple drive away, Eugene wheels himself to the full 
length mirror. He regards his own reflection for a moment and 
opens the mirror - a disguised door opening into the adjacent 
apartment. A cloud of condensed water vapor billows out. 
GERMAN, the DNA Broker, emerges with an ENGINEER. 
He sends the englneer on his way and joins Eugene at his desk . 
Eugene hands German a credit card that he wipes through hls 
computer. 
GERMAN 
We still need to overhaul the back-up generator. 
(fixing Eugene with a penetrating stare) 
What's going on, Eugene, I thought he was gOlng 
away, not you--you going on vacation? 
EUGENE 
(looking away) 
You got it, German. 
GERMAN 
{nodding thoughtfully}·· 
You deserve it. 
INT. CONCERT HALL -AUDITORIUM. NIGHT. 
JEROME and IRENE step over feet, apologizing as they go, 
eventually finding their seats in a box in a sold-out concert 
hall. 
On the stage below, a YOUNG PIANIST - a teenage prodigy -has 
already taken his place at the keys of a grand piano. The 
·,pianist removes his white gloves and begins to play -an 
. 'extremely complex and beautiful piece we have never heard 
before. IRENE looks to JEROME. He is clearly caught up in the 
music. 
EXT. IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT. NIGHT. 
The music from the piano recital continues under the following 
contrasting action. A huge, brooding housing project. PEOPLE 
hang around on street corners. Menace in the air - a feeling of 
impending violence. 
Suddenly unmarked police cars appear from all directions, 
blocking any escape route. Dozens of PLAINCLOTHES DETECTIVES 
p·our out of the cars and onto the street. (CONTINUED) 
.. 66 
CONTINUED 
People scaccer, many r~nn~ng scra~ght into the arms of the 
Decect~ves. OTHERS, sp:ll:ng ouc of the houslng proJecc, are 
also immediately apprehended. 
The Detectives quickly weed out those suspects not ficting 
Jerome's description -WOMEN, OLD MEN and TEENAGERS. They are 
shepherded off the streec. A line of IN-VAL IDS is fo=med 
several hundred yards long. Detectives begin to laboriously 
move along the line, caklng finger-prick blood samples from each 
suspecc -instantly con£:r.n~ng their identities with portable 
analyzers worn on their hlpS. 
As if having the ldea ac the sarne time, TWO SEPARATE MEN 
suddenly bolt from che llne, knowing that their blood will 
incriminate them. Ocher Detectives, watching for such escape 
attempts, easily apprehend them and escort them to a waiting 
police van. 
With the raid under cencrol, DETECTIVE HUGO indicates to the 
INVESTIGATOR that it is safe to exit his car. The Investigator 
appea:-s irritated, only half -glancing a.t the 'iWO MEN already· in 
custody, apparently certain that neither one is his suspect. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(enchuslastic) 
Not our fish, buc something stuck in the net. 
The Investigator clearly does not share Hugo'S enthusiasm. The 
Detective offers the Investigator an age enhanced photograph, 
computer-generated from the last existing photo of VINCENT as 
a 20-year-old. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
This is the age enhancement we're working with. 
The Investigator 19nores the photo, preferring instead to trust 
hls own eye as he wanders along the line of suspects. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(referring to the line-up) 
As you requested, we've Kept the parameters 
wider than usual. 
The MEN they scrutinize are hardly mutants -the differences 
between an IN-VALID and a DAN are subtle at best. Some shorter, 
some wearing glasses, some with receding hairlines or bald, many 
with no discernible physical difference at all. The 
Investigator is only halfway down the line before he turns and 
starts walking back to his car. (CONTINUED) 
67 
CONTINUED 
The mystified Detective Hugo follows his superior. 
::-J\r:;S7I GATOR 
We're in the wrong place. We're wast~ng time. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
This is the most likely location--
The Investigator wheels on Hugo, suddenly angry, clearly unused 
to having his judgement questioned. 
INilES:'IGATOR 
--There's that word again. I have a feeling 
this man doesn't play the odds, Detect~ve. Not 
exactly a slave to probability. Is it 'likely' 
that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for 
fifteen years--a brutal killer--is going to come 
to us now like a' lamb? 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(taken aback by the outbUrst) 
Is there something more we should know about this 
suspect, Sir? I mean besides what's on his sheet. 
INVESTIGATOR 
Since going underground, traces of this In-Valid 
have shown up at the scene of four serious 
felonies. Do you need any more than that? 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent 
citizens have left specimens at as many crime 
scenes. Maybe he'S just unlucky. 
INVESTIGATOR 
I don't like anybody this unlucky. 
(pause) 
Widen the sweep. The West side. Draw a five mile 
radius around Gattaca. Hoover some of the classier 
establishments. Random car stops. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
We're already getting complaints about 
frivolous search. 
INVESTIGATOR 
This is a murder investigation. The public 
should be happy to co-operate, to get this 
disease off the streets. 
68 
INT. CONCERT HALL. NIGHT. 
A standing ovation. 7he YOUNG PIANIST on the stage bows deeply, 
soaking up the applause of the AUDIENCE. The p~~nist tosses one 
of his white gloves into the front row where it LS caught by an 
adoring FAN. The second glove he tosses up to the box where 
JEROME and IRENE are standing. Jerome snares the glove out of 
the air and immediately hands it to Irene. She promptly slips 
the glove on her own hand. 
The glove fits snugly over her five fingers. However one finger 
of the glove remains unfilled. Jerome is stunned to realize that it is a six-fingered glove. 
IRENE 
(catching his look of astonishment) 
You didn't know? 
JEROME 
(trying too hard to convince) 
Yes ... yes ... 
IRENE 
(picking up a resentment, confused') 
You're angry--
JEROME 
Why would I be angry? It was beautiful. 
He quickly turns away to lead the applause. On stage, the 
pianist raises his hands to acknowledge the crowd. Both his 
hands contain a perfectly formed extra finger. 
INT. IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT -PROSTITUTE'S BOUDOIR. NIGHT . 
. From an upstairs window we observe the INVESTIGATOR's car 
cruise slowly back into the squalid housing project. A MAN LS 
buckling his pants at the window. 
JOHN 
Shit! One of those Hoovers is back. 
A prostitute, VALERIE, a slender, sylphlike beauty, joins him at 
the window. 
VALERIE It'S alright. He's here to see me. 
Her client looks at her askance. 
hurries into his clothes anyway. Despite her assurances, he 
(CONTINUED) 
• 
l 
. . CONTlNUE;D 
VALERIE 
(to an unseen woman in the next room) 
Sonja, I can't see anyone else tonight. 69 
INT. IN-VALID HOUSING PROJECT -PROSTITUTE'S BOUDOIR. NIGHT . 
The INVESTIGATOR, sits up in the bed, glass in his hand. 
VALERIE lies on the tangled sheets, naked, making no effort to 
cover herself. She regards the Investigator curiously. 
VALERIE 
I don't understand you, Investigator. 
The Investigator glances idly in her direction. 
VALERIE 
(teasing good-naturedly) 
You hunt us by day and fuck us by night. Do 
you only get it up for In-valids? 
The Investigator .smiles and rejoins her on the bed: 
VALERIE 
Wouldn't you be happier with one of your 
made-to-order whores? 
INVESTIGATOR 
(gently stroking her hair) 
You are so beautiful, are you sure you weren't 
altered? This is not the face, the body, of 
a Godchild. How could something so lovely 
be a product of chance? 
VALERIE 
Is that what keeps you coming back? 
(meeting his gaze) 
Look at you. Such angry, beautiful, perfect eyes. 
Do you ever wonder what they would see if they 
weren't quite so perfect? They will never see 
what I see. 
The Investigator tries to laugh off her assertion but his 
tight-lipped smile betrays his displeasure. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(a cruel edge to his voice) 
You have so much wrong with you, you'll 
be lucky to see next year. (CONTINUED) 
70 
CONTINUED 
He roughly forces h~mself on top of her but she remains defiant. 
VALERIE 
Are you so much more alive, Investigator? 
INVESTIGATOR 
(parting her legs) 
I'm not pay~ng you to talk. 
INTI EXT. IRENE'S CAR. NIGHT. 
IRENE drives, JEROME at her side. Cars are being flagged down 
by uniformed POLICE OFFICERS. Irene slows down behind the car 
in front. Spying an OFFICER shine a flashlight in the eyes of 
the MALE DRIVER up ahead, Jerome wipes the contact lenses from 
his eyes and flicks them out of the passenger window when Irene 
is not looking. 
An OFFICER approaches Jerome and, without a word, opens an 
electronic testing kit worn on his hip. He. removes a sterilized 
Q-tip and motions for Jerome to ·open his' mouth so he can scrape 
a culture. uerome waves his hand in front of his mouth, 
feigning embarrassment. 
JEROME 
(conspiratorial wink to the Officer) 
Better net. 
Inodding in Irene's direction) 
Don't want to give you a cont~nated 
specimen ... if you get my meaning. 
IRENE plays along, shrugging coyly at the cop. 
·:we see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of Jerome's hand as he furtively 
retrieves a hair follicle attached to his shirt cuff. With the hair already in his fingers, he pretends to pluck a hair from 
his head, faking a wince at the appropriate moment. 
The cop, wearing transparent latex gloves, takes the follicle 
and places it in a receptacle in his kit. After a short moment 
the hair confirms JEROME's driving ID which appears on the kit's 
electronic screen. As the cop departs, Irene looks 
questioningly at Jerome. 
JEROME 
Thanks. 
(answering her unasked question) 
You never know where those swabs have been. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
:rene nods, however c~early ~ot convinced. She shakes t~e deubt 
f::-om her ml.nd. 
:RE.'ffi 
I want to show you something. 
She accelerates away. ~e see the road ahead from Jerome's ?OV. 
Without his contact lenses, it is a blur. 
INT. MICHAEL'S CLUB. NIGHT. 
After closing time, suited DETECTIVES vacuum the club in · .... hl.ch 
Jerome and Eugene d~ned the previous evening. MICHAEL, the 
owner, looks on disda~nfully. Waiting in the baCkground, the 
regular CLEANERS -most ll.kely In-valids themselves -smirk to 
each other, enjoying watching the cops do their work for them. 
EXT. OCEAN HIGHWAY. NIGHT. 
With no place to turn .the car around, IRENE parks on the cliff 
side of the six-lane highway. In the darkness she dashes from 
the car and, without a second thought, runs directly out into 
the heavy commuter traffic. Easily negotiating the on-coming 
cars, she emerges safely on the other side of the highway. 
JEROME, rounding the car from the passenger side, is about to 
follow, when he suddenly pulls up sharply at the curb. We focus 
on his eyes, deprived of the benefit of their contact lenses. 
From Jerome's POV, we see that the headlights rushing ~owards 
him are nothing but a series of fast-moving blurs -blurs that 
merge together. He is unable to distinguish between the 
vehicles or judge their distance. 
IRENE 
(calling back urgently from the 
other side, mindful of the light 
beglnning to leak into the sky) 
Come on! We'll miss it! 
Irene stares expectantly back at Jerome with her 20/20 vision, 
unaware of his predicament. Jerome puts a foot off the curb at 
the wrong moment and is almost collected by an on-coming car. 
Irene is taken-aback at his mistiming. Does she detect a squint 
on Jerome's face? To Jerome, the figure of Irene on the other 
side of the highway is merely a featureless shape but he feels 
her expectation. He touches the spectacles, still in his 
pocket, but they are an unthinkable option. (CONTINUED) 
.--~ '-
CONT!NUE,D 
He shakes ehe idea from his head and eurns back co ehe sw~ft:y­
f :ow~ng highway. He makes up his ml.nd -he cannoe allow h~::1Sel f 
co be shamed, even ae c~e risk of life and limb. Hardly even 
glancing ae ehe eraffic, he suddenly boles blindly across ~~e 
road. Headlighcs hurcling cowards him, cars forcuieously 
brushing pasc his heels, horns blaring. Jerome makes a f~nal 
leap co che haven of che far curb, che rush of air from a large, 
fasc-moving cruck blowing him che final inches co che sidewalk. 
Irene is scunned by che near miss. She is abouc co commenc buc 
Jerome cakes her by che arm and ushers her cowards che dunes. 
JEROME 
Come on. We'll ml.SS ic. 
EXT. BEACH. DAWN. 
JEROME and IRENE huddle beneach an overcoac as che sun crescs 
che horizon. scaining che sky wich an ochre blush. 
IRENE 
Whac did I cell you? 
Jerome nods. However, co his eyes che rising yolk is noching 
but an ouc-of-focus, abscracc ink blot. 
IRENE 
I envy you, ~ercme. 
~EROME 
You'll be nexc. 
IRENE 
I don't chink so. The only crip I'll make 
l.n space is around che sun--
(leccl.ng a handful of sand 
slip ehrough her fingers) 
--on chis sacellice right here. 
Irene curns co Jerome. 
IRENE 
(blurcl.ng ouc what's really on her mind) 
--Listen, I don't want to waste your time 
and I really don't want you to waste mine. 
I don't know whac you're after but I have 
a feeling I'm noc lC. 
(CONTINUED) 
. . CCN'I'INUED 
Irene suddenly takes .jercme's hand and puts 1t up her 
sweater, onto her breast. Although taken aback, .jerome makes 
no effort ~o w1thdraw h1s hand. 
:?ENE 
(enjoY1ng his unease) It's here. My heart . 
(adding quickly) 
I'm careful--weekly check-ups. 
drug maintenance program, blood 
diet--I'm on a 
thinners, 
(slowly removing his hand) 
I just want you to know what you'd be gett1ng 
yourself. into. 
JEROME 
What exactly ~s wrong? 
IRENE 
Nothing yet. I'll start experiencing 
symptoms in my late-fifties .. 
(matter-of-fact) 
But unless they come up with something between 
now and then, ::: won't live much past 67. 
Jerome's mouth drops. a little, betraying his surprise at the 
statement from a woman plainly still in her twenties. 
:RE."<E 
Of course I th1nk about it every day . 
.JEROME (still not quite recovered from his surprise) 
Of course. 
INT. POOL. MORNING. 
The INVESTIGATOR SW1ms h1S race with the unseen opponent. The 
Investigator's ASSISTANT, carrying a phone, tries to attract h1S 
attention. 
EXT. JEROME'S POOL. MORNING. 
JEROME sits at his own pools ide in his robe, feet dangling over 
the edge, smok1ng a clgarette. EUGENE, from his wheelchalr, ~s 
applying bleach to Jerome's hair and eyebrows with gloved 
hands. (CONTINUED) 
-CONTINUED 
At the same t:me, ~ercme ~lays a sle~ght-of-hand game w~th a 
syrlnge. 
EUGE."lE 
How was your even~ng? 
JEROME 
Complicated. I couldn't stop her apologiz~ng. 
EUGENE 
(teasing) 
You are a catch. No doubt she's worried that 
she would lower the standard of your offspring. 
Everybody wants to "breed up". 
(idly cur~ous) 
'Hhat's wrong with her? 
JEROME 
(trying to be blase) 
You know how it is with these altered births 
--somebody told her she's not .going to li~e 
. forever and she's been preparing t9 die ever 
since. 
EUGENE 
You're not thinking of telling her, are you? 
JERCME 
Of course not. Sut she'd have to know eventually. 
EUGENE 
(adamant) 
She doesn't have to know. She doesn't want to know. 
-the camera travels down ~erome's scarred legs to find that the 
pool is completely dra~ned. We now realize that it never 
contained water. 
A BARREN WASTELAND. 
A desolate landscape, resembling the surface of the planet Mars. 
We pull back to find that we are peering at this forbidding 
desert through a circular aperture. 
INT. CR::ME LAB. :AY. 
~he INVESTIGATOR li:~s hlS head from the eyepiece of an 
electron microscope :hrough whlch he has been examlning a ~~ny 
fragmenc of skin -che skin is idencified as belonglng ~o 20-
YEAR-OLD VINCENT. CETECTIVE HUGO scands a~ ~he Inves~ 19a~or' s 
side -his acclcude more respeccful In lighc of t:he dlscover/. 
Decective Hugo pOlncs out a location on a computer-genera~ed 
map. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(chagrined) 
The skin flake was found in Michael's Rescaurant. 
The employees are all accounted for. 
:NVESTIGATOR 
A customer? Does this Michael's cater to misfits? 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(shiftin,g the view of the map 
to include the Gattaca complex) 
No. Buc one or two "borrowed ladders" have 
shOwn up there in the pas,t. 
The Investigator understands the significance. They wander over 
to a blow-up photograph of the 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
We have to consider the possibility' that he's 
plaYlng somebody else"s hand. 
A smile gradually broadens across the Investigator's face. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(taking a perverse pleasure in the 
slowly dawning revelation) 
Of course. He's a "de-gene-erate". 
(glanclng to a photo of the 
Gattaca crime scene) 
He works ac Gatt:aca. Why else would we find 
the eyelash near the washroom? Nobody stopS to 
take a leak durlng a murder. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(quickly covering himself) It's still possible the eyelash specimen came 
from a janitor, delivery man--it could have blown 
in through an open window. 
(CONTINUED) 
, 
.. ~6 
CONTINUED 
':'l":e Investigator appears ~.ot ::D be listening, hlos mJ.nd _de up. 
:!iVESTIGATOR 
(mi:\d ::ac~ng) 
He was afralod Dr belong exposed. That's why he did ~t. 
CE:-ECTI'VE HUGO 
(puzzled) It loS hard to believe he could be one of their ellote workers. You've seen their 
security sySt~~. They know who works there. 
(referr~ng to 20-year-old Vincent's profile) 
Even if you lognore the man's expiration date, 
his profile suggests that he doesn't have the 
mathematlocal prcpensloty let alone the stamJ.na 
to pass theJ.r physlocals. 
:tNESTIGATOR 
Don't underest:mate these imposters. 
OE7ECTIVE.HUGO 
(skePtl.cal, referring to a file of 
Gattaca employee ID photos) 
None of the IO photos match the enhancement. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(smJ.ling to himself) 
A man can change his face--but blood is forever. 
Sample every ~'1lployee within the parameters r gave you. 
(pause) 
Intravenous. 
Hugo's mouth drops open at the mention of ·intravenous·. 
CE':'ECTI'{JE HUGO 
(immediately protesting) 
You know their · ... orkforce. Two-thirds at 
least fall into the category. We'll be 
closing down thelr operation for days. 
(seeking a compromise) 
At least go wloth a fir4ertip sample or urlne. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(shaking his head) 
Blood. From the veJ.n. 
The Investigator turns on his heel to prevent further protest. 
The Detective and his ASSISTANTS exchange looks of exasperatlCn 
behind the Investigator's back. 
INT. G~T7ACA. DAY. ~­, 
JEROME, drlnk~ng water, stands in front of a large "ldeo 
bulletin board. Among other things, it displays the elect=onlc 
mugs hot of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT alongside the recent computer 
generated age enhancement of his face. 
Some distance away, CAESAR, the elderly janitor, discusses the 
mugshots with a YOUNGER JANITOR. 
CAESAR 
Look like anybody to you? 
YOUNGER JANITOR 
Not to me. 
CAESAR 
Ugly sonofabitch though, isn't he? 
Jerome half-smiles, realizing that the conversation is for his 
benefit. Having made it clear that they do not intend to expose 
their former colleague, the two Janitors continue their rounds. 
Jerome crushes his paper cup. Forgetting himself ,. he 
drops the cup into the wastebasket. 
INT. CRAFT. DAY. 
JEROME familiarizes himself with the interior of a spacecraft 
under the supervislon of DIRECTOR JOSEF and the MISSION 
COMMANDER. The screen that Jerome sits at is identical to the 
one he operates in the computer complex -displaying asterold 
951 Gaspra. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
--Somewhere in the dust of Gaspra is the key. 
(warming to his theme) 
Back to the beglnning of the book--the life we 
became. With the original building blocks who 
knows how far we can take ·the godding·. 
~ISSION COMMANDER 
(wry smlle) 
Even someone as advanced as Jerome will be 
last year's model by the time we're done. 
JEROME 
( smi 1 ing back) 
I wouldn't get your hopes up, Commander. 
(CON'I'INUEDl 
.. CONTINUED 
:rene enters the craft. 
: RENE 
Excuse me, ~r ~orrow. The invesc~gacors have 
begun cheir tesc~ng. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
This ~s so inconvenient, Irene. They can 
make an exception for Jerome. 
IRENE 
I'm af::aid noc. 
~IRECTOR JOSEF 
I apologize, Jerome. 
JEROME It's noc your fault, Direccor. 
(afcerchought) 
If your predecessor were still around 
we may not be going to Gaspra at all. 
Thac's whac I would call inconvenient. 
Jerome exits the craft ' .. ith Irene. 
INT. GA'l"!'ACA CORPORATION -CORRIDOR. DAY. 78 
A line of MALE GA'l"!'ACA EMPLOYEES snakes out the door and down 
the corridor. The INVESTIGATOR walks slowly down the line, 
trying to eyeball his suspecc. Concentrating on the shorter, 
dark-haired men in che l~ne, he looks scraighc pasc JEROME. 
However, as the Investigator ignores him and walks by, we see a 
:.haunted look in Jerome's eyes. 
INT. GA'l"!'ACA -TESTING ~AB. DAY. 
Every available TECHNIC:AN is working to accommodate che tescing 
of the thousand or so PROGRAMMERS. Twelve testing scacions 
operace s~multaneously. A HOMICIDE DETECTIVE supervises each 
stacion. JEROME reaches the head of the line. He notes an 
ex~c~ng COLLEAGUE holding a cotton ball to his arm. 
A NURSE direccs Jerome to LAMAR's testing station. Lamar 
deposits the previous pacienc's labeled vial into a blood 
carousel under che watchful eye of a large DETECTIVE, clearly 
not ::elish~ng his ass~g~~enc. Jerome rolls up his sleeve. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTI!ruED 
';:::RCME 
(referr~ng co che cable lined wlch syr~~ges) 
'dhac's wlch che plungers, Lamar? 'dhac are 
you doing, openlng a blood bank? 
The syringes are c~early noc Lamar's ldea. 
L;..'1AR 
(sarcaSC1C) 
The gentl~~en of law enforcement are concerned chac 
my testing methods may have been compromlsed. 
Lamar inserts a fresh syringe lnto Jerome's arm. As Lamar draws 
che blood, Jerome suddenly flinches and flexes his arm 
violently, causing che needle co bend and buckle, exiting che 
skin from a second punccure point. 
JEROME 
Damn! ! 
Having pulled away from Lama+'s grasp, Jerome withd+aws.the bent 
needle himself, blood stlll'squirting from his vein. . 
LAMAR 
(grabbing a nearby wad of gauze) 
Jesus--r'~ sorry, Jerome. 
The large Homicide Detective winces and curns away from che red 
arcing spray, a splash of blood spattering his shoes. rn the 
midst of the commotlon, with his practised sleight-of-hand, 
Jerome removes the vial from the syringe and replaces lt with 
another concealed 'Ilal. 
JEROME 
(unfazed, putting Lamar at his ease) 
You must be out of practise, Lamar. 
Lamar hurriedly takes the syringe from Jerome. 
LAMAR 
(ex~ning and removing the 
sWltched vial from the bent syringe) 
r've got enough here. 
JEROME 
(regarding the squimish detective, 
as he holds the gauze to his arm) 
Need c~y more, you can always get it off his shoes. 
(CON'I'INUEDI 
,-80 
CONTINUED 
The Detect~'/e r.ot~::es ,::-:e spatter of blood across hlS brcg'..les 
and, w~th a look 0: j~sdaln, wipes it clean. He tosses the 
lncrimlnat~ng t:sS'..le down a hygenically sealed garbage shoot. 
Lamar places Jerome's :abelled v~al in 
~mmediately analyzed by the computer. 
Employee ID code appears on the screen 
EMPLOYEE enters the testing lab. 
INT. GATTACA. DAY. the carousel '",here ~t 1S 
Jerome's "legltlmate" 
-"VALID". Another 
JEROME exits the testlng lab with the gauze held to his arm. 
IRENE lS standlng cutslde the door. 
:?ENE 
So you didn't do ~t after all. 
JEROME 
( J ok~ng darkly) 
r guess sOmebody' beat me to il: .. 
INT. GATTACA -MEZZANINE FLOOR. LATER IN 'mE DAY. 
From above, the I~.~ST:~ATOR and HUGO observe the flnal EMPLOYEE 
eXlt the testing lab. 
LAMAR, following the employee out of the lab, throws a look oE 
v~ndl.Catlon to the t· .. o cops. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
That's the last. 
::NESTIGATOR 
Something's not rlght. 
::ETECTIVE HUGO 
(los~ng his patience) 
He'S not here, It'S a blind alley. 
:NVESTIGATOR 
(resolute) 
No, we've mlssed something. We Hoover agal.n. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
We don't have the manpower. 
:!J'\"ESTIGATOR 
Get it. F~~m cutside, if you have to. 
From what budget? 
INVESTIGATOR 
(angered by Hugo'S excuses) I'll take 1t ~ut of your damn pension 1f 
you quest10n my authority one more time! 31 
The INVESTIGATOR tur~s h1S back on his subordinate and idly 
contemplates the nearby telecope. Hugo resignedly relays the 
news to D1rector Josef · .. ho 1S standing some distance away .. 
Josef's immediate react:on 1S to march towards the Investlgator, 
Hugo tra1ling beh1nd. DIRECTOR JOSEF collects himself as he 
notices the Invest1gator's hand on the telescope. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
Would you care to look--in the telescope? 
~ :NVESTIGATOR 
. . Thank you, no. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF (std;' referring to the telescope) 
One look through there and you would know why 
! can't posslbly allow you to disrupt operations 
any further. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(unfazed) 
You're so unconcerned that you have a killer 
in your midst . 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
Right now, your presence is creating more of 
a threat. I don't think you have any concept 
of what we do here--how meticulous our 
preparations must be. We are about to send 
twelve people through 140 million miles of 
blackness to rendezvous with an object the Slze 
of a house and the color of coal. So it's rather 
critical to point them in the right direction. 
And we certainly don't need you looking over our 
shoulders. Bes1des, I don't believe there is 
any eVldence that the killer is amongst us. I 
don't see too many other dead bodies litterlng 
the ~lace. (CONT:NUEDI 
CON'!'INUEP 52 
!~;VEST!GATCR 
(surJey~ng the mostly empty fac~lity) 
No, but since there aren't too many live ones 
tonight either, you won't mind us conducting one 
further sweep. If he does not work here, then 
there should be no other trace of him. 
(to Hugo) 
I think you'd better get some people out of bed. 
Detective. 
(a thought occurs) 
In the meant~me we can re-check his favorite 
haunt. Even murderers have to eat. 
Director Josef quietly seethes. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(to Josef, referring to the telescope) 
You see, Director, I prefer my microscope. 
IN'!'. EUGENE" S CONDOMINIt.'M. DAY. 
JEROME readies himself for an evening out -a bandage around his 
arm from the needle puncture. EUGENE wheels himself in. 
EUGENE 
Where are we going? 
JEROME 
(slightly gu~lty) 
I'm sorry. I've got plans. 
Again? EUGENE 
(feigning hurt) 
';ERCME 
(referr~ng to his bandage) 
She's already got her doubts. I have to act 
like nothing'S wrong. 
EUGENE 
I'm sure you'll be very convincing. 
Jerome ignores the r~ark. 
EUGENE 
'~ere are you tak~ng her? 
(CONTINUED) 
.. 83 
C:NT!!-ruED 
:1:.c:-:ael 's. 
Eugene leoks ac ~lm askance. 
JEROME 
Eve~1body goes there. 
EUGENE 
(incredulous, glancing around the room) 
You may as well invlte her here. 
':EROME 
lafcerchought as he picks up his Jacket) 
Will you be okay? 
EUGENE 
Don't worr1 about your little pin cushion. 
To be honest, I'm looking forward to having 
the place to myself. 
JEROME . 
(seeing through the bravado) 
We'll stlll be able to talk when I'm away. 
The conversac:on w1ll Just keep gettlng longer. 
EUGENE 
How long? 
JEROME 
By the time I'm at the Belt, you phone and 
say, "How are yOU?" Forty-five minutes 
later I reply, "Not bad. How are you?" 
EUGENE 
I guess I'd bet:er have something 1mportant 
to say if it takes that long to get an answer. 
!N'!' . MICHAEL'S CLUB. ~lIGHT . 
IRENE and JEROME step off the dance floor of the smoky, decadent 
dinner club and take a seat at their table. Irene is agog at 
che strange assortment of PATRONS, the cigars, the laden dessert 
trolleys. It 1S all slightly off from the pristine world she is 
accustomed to. 
!RENE 
.... 'hat lS this p~ace? (CON'!'INt:ED I 
CONTINUED 
-:EROME 
( . .,;ry smlle, enjoying her fasc:::atlonJ 
You've never been here? 
ia dessert trolley is wheeled up) 
Let me order for you. 34 
Jerome selects a chocolate torte from the trolley. Jerome 
savors a spoonful. Irene is tempted but then remembers herself. 
IRENE I'd better not. 
She reaches for her elegant pill box. -:erome takes another 
spoonful. 
JEROME 
So sure of what you can't do. Do you even 
know what it tastes like, Irene? 
Irene goes to deny it but cannot. 
MICHAEL suddenly approaches the' table w"lth ·a. WAITER in tow. 
Irene is about to steal a taste of the dessert with her finger 
when their plates and glasses are whisked away and the table 
immediately hoovered. X~chael whispers in Jerome's ear. 
XICHAEL 
Take the side door. 
Jerome looks up in t~me to see DETECTIVE HUGO coming through the 
front entrance with several other DETECTIVES. 
DETECTIVE 
(to his colleagues) 
Check for lenses, hairpieces--
A Detective shines a flashlight ~n the eyes of a MALE PATRON. 
A SECOND DETECTIVE tugs the hair of a SECOND PATRON. Jerome 
takes Irene by the hand and escorts her out of the side ex~t. 
Several other COUPLES make for the parking lot. 
IRENE 
~y are we leav~ng? 
JEROME 
(attempting to explain the hasty exit) 
Those checks take forever. 
55 
EXT. MI::HAEL'S CLUB -S:SE .=..LLEY. NIGHT. 
Spilling out of the eXlt, JEROME and IRENE find a burly 
pialn clothes DETEC7:'/E barr ~ng their way. Before the C:etect ~ 'Ie 
can say a word, Jerorr.e r:as ',;rapped hls fist in his Jacket sleeve 
and srra.shed hlm ~n the face. He contlnues to beat ':he Cetect: 'Ie 
unt::.l he lies motionless on the ground. 
Jerome! ~RENE 
(stunned) 
Spying other Detectives some distance away in the parking lot, 
Jerome leads Irene out of a hldden side gate. 
IRENE 
What about the car? 
JEROME 
(grabblng her by the hand) 
Let's walk. 
!RENE 
Who are they? 
JEROME 
(holding h::.s bruised knuckles) It's not safe. I shouldn't have brought you here. 
Jerome drags Irene across a vast, desolate lot, lit only by 
moonlight. ~eeling exposed, he breaks lnto a run. 
I can't. 
Come on. IRENE 
JEROME 
(anxious) 
IRENE 
My medicatlon. I left it back there. 
JEROME 
We'll get It later. 
(forclng her to look him in the eye) 
Irene, please. 
Irene realizes his seriousness. She begins to run with him. 
~e clearing is wider than Jerome anticipated. They are only 
halfway across -extremely vulnerable if the Detectlves think to 
l'ook in their direction. 
36 
:NT. ~ICHAEL'S. NIGHT. 
The :NVESTIGATOR is grilling MICHAEL, the club's owner. 7he 
:nvestigator suspiciously regards the multitude of ml.nl.-vacs ~:1 
the kitchen and the l.nClnerator burnl.ng the refuse. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(an accusl.ng tone) 
You run a clean establishment. 
MICHAEL 
Are you a health l.nspector? 
:~lVESTIGATOR 
(showl.ng Vincent's mugshot) 
Do you recognlze this man? 
MICHAEL 
My eyes aren't so good. 
INVESTIGATOR 
I bet. 
Hugo calls out from the sl.de door where he has disc::overed 
his fallen colleague. 
HUGO 
Sir. 
The Investigator hurrl.es to hl.m. 
:NVESTIGATOR 
(to the still dazed Detective, 
examining his injuries) 
Did he hit you wl.th his fist? 
DETECTIVE 
(head In his hands) 
More like a hammer. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(reprlmanding the beaten Detective) 
Don't touch your face. Don't swallow. 
Don't spit. 
(to Hugo) 
Quick, clean hl.s teeth. 
Hugo uses a flashlight and a small dental-like implement to tr/ 
Co pick skin from Jerome's knuckles from between the Detec':~'/e' s 
teeth. The Investigator finds the hidden side door. 
07 
EXT. DE~CLA7E LOT. 
JEROME and :RENE cont:':1ue to sprint across the enormous vacant lot in the moonlight, splashing through deposlts of mud and 
water. JUSt as the gate opens in the distance, Jerome hurls 
. Irene into the safety of the undergrowth on the other slde. 
Irene, out of breath, desperately feels for her pulse. 
:RENE 
(upset, a strangled protest) 
Are you trying to Kill me? Are you?! 
Don't you understand, I can't do that! 
Jerome tenderly removes Irene's hand from her pulse. 
JEROME 
You Just did. 
Irene lOOKS back across the vast clearing they have just 
negotiated, realizlng ·""hat she has just done. 
From across .~he other side of the clearing comes an echoing 
cry from the center FIG~~E. 
INVESTIGATOR (OC) 
Vincent! 'Jincent! 
EXT. MICHAEL'S. NIGHT. 
The INVESTIGATOR is about to cry out Vincent's name once again 
when he realizes DETEC-::::'lE HUGO and the other DETECTIVES are 
watching him, askance. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(to Hugo, coverlng hlS frustration) 
What are you waiting for? 
CETECTIVE HUGO 
Where do we start? 
:::~NESTIGATOR 
We'll vacuum these streets if we have to. 
DETECTIVE 
(handing the Investigator Irene's pill box) 
We caught them trying to flush these, Sir. 
The Investigator carefully examines the heart pills. 
EXT. :?ENE' 5 APAR'!:1E."IT. ~'::;nT . 
,,·ERCME ..... alks IRENE co the seeps of her apartment. :erc:r.e :::~::ks 
about ~epart~ng but Irene takes h~m gently by the hand. 
!RE."lE 
So sure of what you can't do. 
Jerome follows her inside. 
INT . IRENE'S BEDROOM. NI GHT . 
JEROME and IRENE climb a staircase to her bedroom. Without 
another word they begin to make love. 
LATER THAT NIGHT JEROME cannot sleep. He rises quietly so as 
not to disturb IRENE. He sllently opens the double-windows of 
the upstairs bedroom. He carefully gathers his p1llow from the 
bed and shakes it out of the window. 
Slowly Jerome turns to gaze at the wood floor. In. the moonlight 
we see an EXTREME CLOSE UP of a single ·hair lying on the' . 
floorboards. Jerome bends and, picks up the hair. trying to 
identify it in the dim light. On his hands and knees he tries 
to clean the floor with a towel. Irene turns over in the 
bed. Jerome freezes but she continues to sleep. He realizes he 
may be spreading even more of his skin and hair over the .floor. 
Overcome with frustrat10n and the enormity of his task. he . 
begins to quietly weep. 
EXT. A FIELD. DAWN. 
A light shroud of mist hangs over the trees that encircle a 
. grassy clearing beyond Irene's building. Something lies 1n the 
':center of the clearing. 
We jump-cut to an EXTRE.~ CLOSE UP of two or three blades of 
grass. Bristles rain down on the blades. Without access to his 
:ncinerator. the crouched, naked figure of JEROME disposes of 
his wh1skers. skin and ha1r in an open field. His clothes Slt 
In a neat pile at his side. He pours glycolic acid over h1S 
body and scrubs at his back. feet and hands with a brush. There 
1S a haunted. tortured look in his eyes as he tries desperately 
to rid himself of h1mself. 
:NT. POOL. MORNING. 
The :NVESTIGATOR swims obsessively in his aquatic treadm1l~. 
.. 39 
INT. :;:RENE'S APAR~NT. :"ATER THAT MORNING. 
Back In the bedroom. JEROME, partially dressed, holds IRENE 
In bed. She softly touc~es the scars on hls shins. 
(referrlng to the scars) 
What happened? 
JEROME 
You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. 
( shrugs) 
Looked rlght lnstead of left. 
:RENE 
(comforted by the thought) 
So you're not so smart after all. 
I want I'd be 
Bank. (awkward about raising the subject) 
you to know--if it ever came to it-­
willing .to get an ovum from the Egg 
In fact, I'd raCher use a donor egg--
(quickly covering herself. again) --if it came to it. 
JEROME 
But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your-­
(searching for an appropriate body part) 
--nose. 
(stroking her face) 
How perfect does your child have to be? 
IRE."IE 
(mlldly lrritated by what she 
perceives as his mocking) 
You hypocrite. Do you think for one moment 
you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't 
for who you are--whac you are? Don't you get 
any satisfactlon knowing that your children 
will be able to live to a ripe old age unless 
they do somethlng foolish? 
JEROME 
That's precisely what scares me--that they 
won't do anythlng foolish or courageous or 
anyching--worth a Goddamn. 
Irene 1S taken aback by Jerome's passion, regarding him in a new 
light. 
90 
!NT. EUGENE' S CONDCM!~H:::M. MOR.NI~IG. . 
EVGENE urinates ~nto a large plastic container wh~:e drinkl,-q 
bottled water at the same tl~e. He already has several other 
ccntalners of urine on the cable beslde h~m. 
INT. GAT7ACA. MORNING. 
The INVESTIGATOR and DETECT!'/E HUGO keep a wary eye on che 
outfitted DETECTIVES re-vacuuming the empty computer complex 
with their mini-vacs. 
HUGO 
(reading newspaper) 
My wife and I--we're thinking of starting a family. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(shrugs, ambivalent) 
Why not? 
HUGO 
These new personality corrections I've been 
reading about. 
INVESTIGATOR 
You worried about the cost? 
HUGO 
Not that. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(regarding Hugo with a condescending smile) 
They said the same thing about myopia and 
obesity. You th~nk your Children would be 
less human if they were less violent, angry, 
spiteful? Maybe they'd be more human. rrom 
where I sit the world could stand a little 
improving. 
We dwell on one DETECTIVE in particular, snatching a garbage 
bag from CAESAR, the jan~tor. 
DE7ECTI'IE 
Don't touch that. It'S evidence. 
He puts a pile of discarded paper cups aside for later testlng. 
:NT. GA~ACA CCRPC~;7:C:J. LA7ER 7~7 MCRNING. 
In t:he 'last:, ernpt:y Gat: :aca complex I:he I!'NESTIGATOR ~nspec':. 5 3-
specunen bag conl:al.nu:g -:erome' s paper cup wl.l:h DIRECTOR -:CSEF 
and :ETEC'T!'/E HUGO. 
DE'TECTI'IE HUGO 
Posil:ive sall.va mal:ch. The cup was 
definit:ely used since I:he original sweep. 
IN'IESTIGATOR 
So we have t:wo choices. Eil:her our suspect 
came back 1:0 I:he murder scene for a drink of 
wal:er and I don't know anybody that thirsty or ... 
Ilooking out over the empty complex) ... he is here. 
(resolul:e) 
We test again. You're right, Hugo, this was a 
desperate act. Someone had a lot to lose that 
nl.ght--perhaps ·their place in line. 
Ito Dl.rector Josef) 
I'd like the profiles of everyone with an 
upc,;ml.ng ml.SSl.on. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
(nervous) 
~Nelve have a ml.ssion within the week. 
INVESTIGATOR 
This I:ime I will supervise each test personally. 
INT/EXT. GATTACA. MORNING. 
JEROME and IRENE walk towards the entrance to Gattaca. Spying 
the Homl.cide Investigatl.on trucks parked at the rear of the 
':building and the silhouel:te of t:he IN'lESTIGATOR in the doorway, 
Jerome pulls up sharply. Irene notices his unease. 
IRENE 
What is it? 
JEROME 
I forgot somel:hing--something at home. I'll see you later. 
Jerome kisses her. Irene, also aware of the trucks, 
interrogates Jerome wl.l:h her eyes. 
:RE.'lE 
:'11 miss you. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUE!;) 
~erome ~s sc~ll :ocussed en ~he entranceway. 
IRE.."'JE 
(look~ng skywards) 
--when you go away. 
JEROME 
We could go together one day. 
Irene considers the idea. She enters Gattaca alone. 
INT. GATTACA AEROSPACE CORPORATION -COMPUTER COMPLEX. DAY. 
IRENE prepares a stack of IO photos of CREW MEMBERS for the 
INVESTIGATOR. She closely inspects the doctored photo of 
JEROME, hesitating before adding it to the file. 
The camera dwells on JEROME's vacant work station. The. 
'INVESTIGATOR curiously regards the empty ·chair. He' is 
accompanied by DETECTIVE HUGO, DIRECTOR JOSEF and IRENE. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
He's the only absentee. 
DIREC':'OR JOSEF 
A little nausea. Quite common. 
INVESTIGATOR 
At least it's noth~ng contagious. 
DIRECTOR JOSEF 
(unduly agitated) 
I will not perm~t any further testing on the 
eve of a ~SSlon. We're already counting 
backwards. 
The INVESTIGATOR ignores Josef and takes a pocket knife from his 
Jacket. He prises out the "ESC· key from Jerome's keyboard, 
places the key in a specimen bag and deposlts it in his Jacket. 
(CONTINUED) 
,. CONTINUED 
:RE!IE 
(~icK~ng up a phonel I'll call and ~et h~m know. 13 
The Investigator gently but firmly removes the phone from 
Irene's hand and replaces the receiver in the cradle. 
::wESTIGATOR 
Let's not spo~l the surprise. 
Ito Irenel 
I understand you can show us the way. 
The anxious Director Josef calls out to protest one further 
time but the Invest:gator is on his way out of the door. 
EXT. STREET OUTSIDE GATTACA. DAY. 
Outside the entrance to Gattaca, trying to hail a taxi, JEROME is startled to see a car carrying the INVESTIGATOR,. DETECTIVE 
HUGO and IRENE roar out of the driveway. JEROME calls .on his 
portable wristphone. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDCMINIUM. DAY. 
EUGENE, at his window, filling sachets as usual, hesitates 
before answerlng the phone. 
EUGENE 
Hello? 
JEROME lOCI 
How would you like to be yourself for the day? 
EUGENE 
I nonchalant I 
I was never very good at it, remember? 
IN'!'. EUGENE'S CONDCMINIUM / HALLWAY. DAY. 
Wlth a look of resolve, EUGENE hangs up the phone. 
He wheels his chair up to the sweeping staircase and regards the 
first of many dozen steps. The daunting staircase spirals away 
above him. 
:m-. IN'VESTI:;ATOR' s .:.;.q. :AY. 
Ht'GO dr~ves. The ::NES7::;';TCR looks to IRENE In the rear seat. 
:!,r;ESTIGATOR 
(':.aunting) 
'{au don':: know ''''no he is, do you, Irene? 
He hands her the pill box found in Michael's. 
INVt:STIGATOR 
'{au think you have problems? 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDO I JEROME'S CONDO. DA,{ . 
Having wheeled his chair out of sight, EUGENE eases himself out 
of his wheelchair and onto the floor. Using his elbows, 
commando-style, dragging his lifeless legs behind him, he 
proceeds to crawl across the floor and up the first step of the 
long spiral staircase. We observe his agonizingly slow progress 
up a staircase that, from Eugene's point of view, appears to 
have doubled In length. 
EXT. CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX. DAY. 
The INVt:STIGATOR and DETECTIVE HUGO emerge from their car with 
IRENE in tow. They take in the l.mpressive c,omplex -the 
Investl.gator gets a glimpse of the empty pool. They approach 
the intercom at the entrance. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM. DAY . 
. EUGENE, bathed in sweat, finally crests the landing of the 
':staircase. No respite. As he drags himself across the floor 
the internal phone rl.ngs. He frantically stretches up and 
knocks the phone off ltS hook so he can talk from his prone 
position on the floor. 
:NT. CONDOMINIUM -LOBBY. DAY. 
!RENE is on the phone, closely watched by the INVESTIGATOR and 
DETECTIVE HUGO. 
EUGENE (OCl 
(through intercom, no trace of his distress) 
Hello. 
( CCNTI!JUED ) 
CDNTINUED 
:?E!';E 
(a :rLcment' s r.es~tation) 
";ercrne--: 
=:'JGENE 
Hello, sweet~eart. Come on up. 
INT. JEROME' S CONDCM::~H liM. DAY. 
With no mean effort. E~GENE finally manages to replace the phone 
on its cradle. He desperately crawls up onto the sofa. 
However, spYlng the ~pr~ght vacuum cleaner in the open closet. 
he is forced to crawl :here and remove the '/acuwn bag. He 
frantically crawls baCK towards the sofa and stuffs the bag 
behind a cushion. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOM::mUM. DAY. 
IRENE enters the door deliberately left ajar, closely followed· 
by the IN'.JESTIGA'roR and :lETECTIVE HUGO. EUGENE is propped up on 
the sofa, TV remote control placed in his useless hand to cover 
his paralysis. He has a stainless steel bowl next to him and 
has crossed his llfeless legs for a more natural effect. Eugene 
calmly motions the confused Irene towards him. 
E::GE.."lE 
Where's my K~ss? 
The Investigator scrut~nizes Irene's reaction. With only the 
merest hesitation she takes her cue from Eugene and kisses 
him affectl.onately on the forehead. She perches herself on the 
. arm of the sofa. Eugene takes the opportunity to rest hl.s 
':hand on her leg. 
:RENE 
Good to see you're feeling better. 
EUGENE 
Now you're here. ·~o are your "friends"? 
:RENE It's about the Director. 
Again? EUGENE 
Ifel.gnlng boredom) 
i cONTnruED ) 
36 
CON'I'INUEO 
,he Invest~gator slowly c~rcles Eugene, regarding h~m with che 
utmost scrut~ny. He compares his face to the doctored Gattaca :J ~hoto - a ~assable likeness. Eugene bends towards the bowl 
and dry retches. 
EUGENE 
Forglve me for not getting up. 
Irene puts a comforting hand on Eugene's shoulder. 
IRENE 
(to the Investigator) 
Couldn't we do this another time? 
INVESTIGATOR 
I don't believe so. 
Detective Hugo takes a seat in the chair beside the sofa and 
unpacks a syringe from the kit he carries. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
This won't take a moment. 
Detective Hugo swabs Eugene's inner arm. All eyes are tralned 
on the tip of the needle as it punctures the vein. 
EUGENE 
(reassuring to Irene, referring to 
the blood flowing into the syringe) 
It'S okay. Maybe they can find out what I've got. 
Under the Investigator's watchful eye, Detective Hugo withdraws 
the syringe and immediately inserts a small amount of the blood 
. into the portable analyzer he wears. Naturally, it confirms 
.: that Eugene is Jerome. 
Irene does her best to conceal her shock. Hiding his 
frustration, the Investlgator distractedly tours the room while 
Hugo packs up his gear. The Investigator idly toys with 
the telescope pointed out of the window. 
~ext he wanders towards the closet and reaches for the doorknob. 
INVESTIGATOR 
Mind if I take a leak? 
EUGENE 
As long as you don't do it in my closet. 
(nodding to the other side of the room) 
Over there. 
.. INT. ';"E:l'OME' S CONr:C!1IN:::M -3ATHROCM. CAY. 
The INVESTIGATOR immediacely pulls a speClmen bag from his 
Jackec pockec and closely inspeccs che stainless steel ~ol~et 
and sink. They are b::h spotless. The shower scali .s also 
scrupulously clean. He flushes the toilet and eXlts. 
Lost in thought, the INVESTIGATOR approaches the closet agaln 
and wheels out Jerome's upright vacuum cleaner. He is 
disappointed a second time to find no vacuum bag inside. The 
Investigator returns the vacuum cleaner to the closet and 
produces a mini-vac from Detective Hugo's crime bag. 
INVESTIGATOR 
Ito Eugene, referring to the mlni-vac) 
May I? 
EUGENE 
Clean the whole house if you want. 
IRENE 
(taking Eugene's lead) 
Actually, the Kitchen needs doing. 
The Investigator switches on the mini-vac to take a speClmen 
from the floor, then promptly kills the machine. Looking down, 
the Investigator notices the trail of Eugene's perspiration 
on the highly polished floor leading to the spiral staircase. 
Eugene, reading the Investigator's mind, goes to callout but 
the words remain frozen on his tongue. Hugo follows his 
superlor as they start to descend the stairs. Irene and Eugene 
are left staring at one another. 
INT. CONDO -STAIRCASE. CAY. 
JEROME catches the merest glimpse of the INVESTIGATOR and 
DETECTIVE HUGO before he slips behind a doorway in Eugene's 
condominium. 
Jerome anxiously regards Eugene's empty wheelchair sitting 
there. On the stalrs, Hugo'S phone rings. 
DETECTIVE HUGO (OC) 
(into phone. increasingly encouraged) 
Yes? ... Yes ... yes ... 
The Investigator is already at the foot of the stairs in 
Eugene's condo when the Detective calls to him. 
(CONTINUED) 
. . CONTINUED 
(urgent, cO Investigator) 
Come quickly. ~e have h~m. 
The Investigator's eyes light up. He retraces his steps 
up the staircase after Detective Hugo . 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM. DAY. 98 
JEROME, white as 
own condominium. 
on the sofa. a ghost, climbs the stairs, emerging into his 
He embraces the beaming EUGENE, still s~tt~ng 
JEROME 
(numb) 
How are you, Jerome? 
EUGENE 
Not bad, Jerome. 
JEROME 
How the hell did you get here? 
EuGENE 
(deadpan) 
I could al· .... ays · .... alk. I've been faking it. 
Jerome almost laughs, desp~te the situation. Only now does he 
not~ce Irene on the other s~de of the room, her mind racing. 
She looks at Jerome and Eugene together and runs from the 
apartment. 
Irene. JEROME 
(calling after her) 
Jerome goes to follow her but Eugene stops him. 
INT. CRIME LABORATORY. CAY. 
An EXTREME CLOSE UP of dried blood -brittle and cracking -on 
a pair of soiled latex gloves. A latex head mask, suit of 
clothes and shoe covers are similarly caked. The !NVESTIGATOR 
and DETECTIVE HUGO watch as a white-coated FORENSIC TECHNICIAN 
feeds a minute sample of the dried blood into an analyzer. 
(CONT!NUED) 
?9 
CONTINUED 
7he It~~S7:GATCR wanders over to a one-way glass wlndow t~rcugh 
WhlCh he can observe DIRECTOR JOSEF, Sittlng numb but strangely 
serene ln an interrogation room. The Investigator, :n a 3~ate 
of shock himself, cannot yet brlng himself to belleve whac :3 
plalnly obvious. 
rNVESTIGATOR 
(gazing at the Director, struggllng 
to come to grips with the turn of events) 
This can't be him. 
The DeteCtlve regards hlS superior lncredulously, lntrigued that 
he could still cling so stubbornly to his theory in the face of 
such overwhelming evidence. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(intr:gued) 
~e found his spit in the dead director's eye. 
He's signed a confession--supplied us with the 
suit he wore on' the night. What more do you 
,want? 
INVESTIGATOR 
(a trace of desperation. grasping at straws) 
Luca could stlll be an accomplice. 
The Investigator wipes the perspiration from his brow with a 
tissue and drops the tissue into the trash. ' 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
There is no one else. Josef acted alone. A 
conflict over the upcomlng mission. We can all go home. 
':The Investigator turns away, unwllling or unable to accept the 
explanation. Hugo regards the Investlgator with a trace of 
sympathy. He furti,ely retrleves the Investigator's tlssue 
from the trash. 
:NT. GATTACA. DAY. 
JEROME sits in a formal briefing room with the other CREW 
MEMBERS of his mission, receiving their final pre-flight 
instructions. LAMAR looks on approvingly. 
(CONTINUED) 
. " CONTINUE~ :JG 
MISSION COMMANDER 
--Flnally, I'd :~Ke to welcome Navigator Morrow 
on his debut miss10n--lf we get lost out there, 
nobody has a rrap of the heavens in his head llKe 
Jerome. 
Jerome looks up bashful:y . 
MISSION COMMANDER 
(adopt~ng a more serious tone) 
I'm gratified that there is no longer a cloud 
hang1ng over tomorrow's launch. Now we can put 
this unpleasantness behind us and concentrate 
on the task at hand. I don't have to tell you how 
important th1s mlssion is--the Belt could hold 
the key to the origin of life -why we are what 
we are. 
(inJecc~ng a note of levity) 
I know many of you have been asking that 
question about me for long enough. 
(referring to a projected photograph 
of a misshapen"asteroid behind his head) 
Gaspra--how could something so ugly hold so 
many beautiful secrets? 
Polite smlles from h1s colleagues. 
MISSICN COMMANDER 
EnJOY your final evening with your families. 
We'll all be a year older when they see 
us next. And don't be late tomorrow. You 
don't want to m1SS thlS . 
. ~e focus on Jerome. He appears to have his head in the heavens ': already. 
INT. CRIME LAB. NIGHT. 
The tormented INVESTIG~TOR lies on the floor of his lab, staring 
at the cel1ing. He W1nces 1n discomfort. He is lying on 
something. He rolls over and retrieves the irritation from his 
pocket. It 1S the "ESC' computer key he prized from Jerome's 
keyboard. 
He gazes at the key for a moment and then gets to his feet. He 
resurrects an cld fingerprint kit from a cupboard. Carefully 
removing the key from che speclmen bag -marked. • MORROW , 
Jerome' -he begins to dust it for a fingerprint. (CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
He places ::-.e key '..:::der a camera. The enlarged print appears 
on the lefthand slde of his computer screen. The word 'MATCH" 
blinks onto the screen. However the face that appears from the 
computer's databank :s not that of 'MORROW, Jerome' but 
'LUCA, Vincent'. The Investlgator regards the photograph In 
disbelief. 
DETECTIVE HUGO casually enters the lab, something odd in hls 
nonchalant demeanor. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(excited) 
Hugo~ I've found him~ 
HUGO 
I've found him too. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(not listening, referring to his discovery) 
A fingerprint. There's something to be saij for nostalgia. 
. (realizing what Hugo has 'said) 
What did you find? 
Hugo puts a specimen bag on the counter. It contains the 
Investigator's discarded tlssue. The Investigator doe.s 
not recognize it. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
It'S not exaccly him. 
INVESTIGATOR 
(interest piqued) 
Where did you get this? 
The Investigator immediately deposits the tissue into an 
analyzer. 
DETECTIVE HUGO 
(referring to the tissue) 
But this man does share some common 
characteristics with your suspect. Not so 
many b~t enough. It appears the eyelash 
does have a brother--of a kind. 
The Investigator realizes the significance and looks guiltily 
to Hugo. Hugo exits the lab, leaving the Investigator to stare 
at his own FACE in his analyzing machine. 
: INT. GArTACA -J~~I~R'S LOCKER ROOM. NIGHT. 
CAESAR, the old jan~tor, enters the locker room. ~e ~s about :0 
wear~ly open his locker when he senses another presence ~n the 
~oom. 
He turns to find JEROME sitting there on a bench. Although 
clearly delighted, CAESAR tr~es to disguise his pleasure. 
CAESAR 
So you've finally seen sense and come back 
to your old Job, Vincent. 
JEROME 
Not yet, I'm afraid. 
CAESAR 
No? What's keeping you? 
JEROME 
I guess I'm a slow learner. 
I guess so. 
(looking up through the 
small window) 
Well, while you're up there, maybe you could 
tidy the place up a bit. 
JEROME I'll see what I can do. 
The two men embrace, Caesar breaking off before Jerome. 
CAESAR 
And don't go getting everybody lost out there. 
You'll give us a bad name. You won't have 
me to keep an eye on you, you know. 
JEROME 
(glanclng to Caesar's locker) 
By the way, I left some trash in your locker. 
CAESAR 
(happy to oblige) I'll take care of it. 
Jerome departs. Caesar watches him go and turns back to his 
locker. He opens it to find a brand new. high-tech telescope 
sltting inside. 
(CONTINUED) 
:'0] 
C::NTINUED 
":"'":e old janieor gees over r.ls surprise and beams broadly -
he looks back in Jerome's d~recelon bue he has gone. The 
old janieor cannoe help hl~elf and reverenely reaches for :he 
telescope's eyepiece. 
INT. GATTACA -COMPUTER COMPLEX. NIGHT. 
In the dimly-lit, empey computer complex, JEROME takes a last 
look around. He sits at his computer, one final t~me replaying 
the graphic representation of h~s path through the cosmos that 
he 'is on the eve of tak~:1g for real. 
He notices the key missi:1g from his keyboard. Instantly 
realizing the s~gnificance, he rises from his seat to flee. 
IN'JESTIGATOR 
Vincent--
Jerome is stopped in his tracks by the sound of his given name 
and the voice that calls It. 
He makes no further attempt to flee but turns to face his 
pursuer. The Investigator steps out of the shadows. 
INVESTIGATOR 
Vincent, what are you running from? 
JEROME 
(disturblngly calm) 
From Vincent. 
The two men face each other for the first time in a long 
. tlme. The Investigator lS transfixed by Jerome's face -
'~scarcely able to believe hlS eyes. 
INVESTIGATOR 
Has it been so long, you don't remember 
who I am? 
JEROME 
(nodding to the Investigator's badge) 
Maybe it's you · ... ho's forgotten. 
(meetlng his gaze) 
What are you doing here, Anton? 
It is finally apparent the Investigator 
brother Anton [AS '~SHALL REFER TO THE 
REMAINDER OF THE FI!..'1J. is Jerome's younger 
INVESTIGATOR FOR 7HE 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUED 
ANrCN 
I could ask you the same question. 
(glanc~ng to the impressive complex) 
I have a r~ght to be here, you don't. ~J4 
Jerome sm~les at condescendingly. 
JEROME 
You almost sound like you believe that. 
ANTON 
(ignoring the remark, extending his hand) 
Come with me n~~, Vincent. You've gone as Ear 
as you can go. 
JEROME 
(reEusing Anton's hand, glancing 
to the telescope above them) 
There are a few million miles to go yet. 
AN'roN 
""" . (adamant) It's over. 
JEROME 
(shaking his head) 
Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, 
to see me Eail? 
ANTON It's for the best. 
JEROME 
(increasingly angered) 
God, even you want to tell me what I can't do. 
In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't 
need rescuing. But you did, once. 
Anton is clearly stung by the memory. 
JEROME 
(goading) 
Well? You have all the answers. How is that 
poss~ble? 
ANroN 
(resolute) 
You didn't beat me that day. I beat myself. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUE!:) 
~o are you C~/lr.g co convlnce? 
~",-rcN 
langr/I 
I wlll prove It to you. Come swim with 
me now, Vincent. Now--tonlght. 
Jerome regards Anton wlch a knowing smile. Somewhere In Gattaca 
a phone rings. 
INT!EXT. IRENE'S CAR OUTSIDE CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX. NIGHT. 
IRENE, sltting ~n her car outside Jerome's condominium, hangs up 
her portable phone. In her agitation, her finger lnvoluntarlly 
goes to her pulse. She catches herself and removes the finger 
from her wrist as If It has burned her. She eXlts the car. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM! EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM NIGHT. 
IRENE quietly knocks on Jerome's door but there is no response. 
Trying the handle, the door opens. Her curiosity takes her 
inside. All is quiet. IRENE calls out. 
IRENE 
Hello. 
No reply. Irene hesltantly ventures further, drawn to the spiral staircase. She tentatlvely makes her way down the stalrs 
and into Eugene's dimly llt condominium. With wonder and 
reverence, she examines the instruments and samples laid out on 
Eugene's work benches. She opens the refrigerator in the 
.... bathroom and inspects the samples and sachets. Finally she 
regards the empty inCinerator. 
EUGENE IOC) 
Quite somethlng, lsn't it? 
Irene turns. 
EUgene has entered through the mirrored door, not at all 
displeased by her unexpected visit. 
EUGENE 
(referring to the incinerator) 
That's · ... here · ... e get rid of the traces of him 
although we never truly succeeded. (CONTINUED) 
· -
.. CONTINUE!:! 
:Ro.'E 
I've been looking for h~m. Do you know where 
he is? 
EUGENE 
(unconcerned) 
He's probably just leaving some more of me 
around the place before he goes. 
Eugene idly inspects one of the blood sachets. 
EUGENE 
Don't be deceived, Irene. These are 
just the clothes. He has to wear them. 
Something I could never do. 
IRENE 
What's wrong with him? 
EUGENE 
(sympathetic smile) 
You nave more in common than you-know. 
Irene's hand involuntar~ly goes to her heart. 
EUGENE 
But they say his is already ten thousand beats 
overdue. I have my doubts. 
(wry smile) 
For all my g~fts, they could never engineer 
me a heart like Vincent's. 
Irene turns back to the incinerator, lost in thought . 
EXT. BEACH. NIGHT. :06 
JEROHEand ANTON walk down a dune together towards the beach not 
far from Gattaca -an ocean beach pounded by an angry, black 
sea. Jerome picks up a sharp piece of shell and slices the end 
of his thumb. A drop of blood oozes out. He offers the shell 
to Anton but Anton does not take it. 
Both men begin to disrobe. The brothers stand beside each other 
on the sand once aga~n -Anton still the more athletically-bu~lt 
of the two. 
Together, they enter the raging surf. 
breaking waves, they begin to swim. Diving through the 
(CONTINUED) 
107 
CONTINUE,D 
In the moonlit n~ght. '",e watch their two bodies sW1Imling slde by 
slde. They swim a long distance. Anton walting for h1S brother 
to tire. But the pace does not slacken. Anton pulls up In the 
water. Sensing his brother is no longer bes1de h1m. Jerome also 
pulls up. They tread water several yards apart. 
ANTON 
(att~~ting to conceal his distress) 
How are you delng this. Vincent? How 
have you dene any of this? 
':EROME 
Now 1S your chance to find out. 
Jerome SWlms away a second time. Anton is forced to follow 
once again. Angry now, gritting his teeth, Anton calls 
upon the same determlnation we have witnessed during his 
constant Swimming in the pool. He puts on a spurt, slowly· 
reeling in Jerome. 
Anton gradually draws alongside Jerome, certain that this effort 
will demoralize his older brother. But Jerome ha.s. been. foxl.ng·­
waiting for him to catch up. Jerome smiles at Anton. With' 
almost a trace of sympathy, he forges ahead again. Anton is 
forced to go with him. They swim again for a long distance. 
It is Anton who gradually becomes demoralized -his strokes 
weaken, his will drainlng away. Anton pulls up, exhausted and 
fearful. Jerome also pulls up. However his face displays none 
of Anton's anxiety. 
They tread water several yards apart. The ocean is choppier 
now. The view of the lights on the shore is obscured by the 
peaks of the waves. 
ANTON 
(panic starting to show) 
Vincent, where's the shore? We're too far out. 
we have to go back! 
JEROME 
(calllng back) 
Too late :or :hat. We're closer to the other slde. 
Anton looks towards the empty horizon. 
(CONTINUED) 
o· 
• CONTINUED 
.!u."ITON 
w.hac other s~de? How far do you want to go?! 
Do you want to drown us both? 
(becom~ng hysterical) 
How are we going to get back?! 
Jerome merely smiles back at his younger brother. a disturbing:y 
serene smile. 
JEROME 
(eerily calm) 
You wanted to know how I did it. That·s 
how I did it. Anton. I never saved anything 
for the swim back. 
Anton stares at Jerome. aghast. The two men face each other in 
s~lence. treading water several yards apart in the dark. rolling 
ocean. 
Jerome turns and heads back towards the shQre. Anton is left 
alone with the terrifying realization. The only sOund. the win~ 
and the water. 
EXT. CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
JEROME. dishevelled and distressed. arrives back at the 
condominium. He notices IRENE standing at the edge of the pool. 
She turns. He approaches her. They stand several 
Looking into each other's eyes. they do not speak. 
abruptly pulls a hair from his head -for once one 
JEROME yards apart. 
Jerome 
of his own. 
(wry smile. offering the hair to Irene) 
Here, take it. 
Irene takes the hair, the Significance not lost on her. 
JEROME 
(echoing Irene's words frcm 
their first encounter) 
If you're still interested, let me Know. 
Irene contemplates the hair in her fingers for a moment. then 
deliberately lets it fall to the ground. 
(CONTINUED I 
. . CONTINUED 
IRENE 
(never caking her eyes from him, echoing 
Jerome's words from their first encounter I 
Sorry, the wind caught it. 
Once again there is not a breath of w~nd. The hair lies, 
plainly vis~ble on the edge of the pool . 
From an upstairs window, EUGENE observes the couple. 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
We watch the silhouette of IRENE and JEROME making love in 
the bedroom. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
EUGENE, sitting in his darkened room, unscrews the 
plastic container and places it on a nearby table. 
on Eugene's face as he opens his fly. . 
INT. JEROME'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. cap of a 
We rema~n. 
IRENE and JEROME lie in bed together after making love. For 
once Jerome is able to sleep unconcerned. It is Irene who lies 
awake, head against JEROME'S chest, listening to the sound of 
his errat~cally beating heart. However it has a soothing 
effect on her. 
She kisses Jerome and reluctantly r~ses from the bed. 
JEROME 
(awakenl.ngl 
A year ~s a long tl.me. 
IRENE 
Not so long--just once around the sun. 
Jerome smiles. For once Irene appears to be looking forward 
to the trip. She eXl.ts the room. 
.. 1:'0 
INT. :::NC:::NERATOR. :10RNING. 
Inside the ~ncinerator, ~ERCME scrapes away at h~mself -fer :he :inal t~me. He w~stfully regards the brush ~n his hand. 
INT. EUGENE' 5 CONOOMINIGM. MORNING. 
JEROME, dressed for h~s departure, emerges down the spiral 
staircase into Eugene's condo. Jerome notices several su~tcases 
at the foot of the sta~rs. 
EUGENE wheels into the room. 
EGG ENE 
I have your samples ready. 
JEROME 
(confused) 
Have you forgotten? I don't need any samples 
where I'm go~ng. 
EUGENE 
(meet~ng Jerome's gaze) 
No, but you m~ght need some when you get back. 
Eugene wheels across the room and opens the mirrored door. The 
water vapor billows out. Jerome regards Eugene. 
Eugene leads Jerome inside for the first time. 
Inside are two rows of four identical, industrial refrigerators. 
They contain thousands of blood and urine specimens. 
Jerome regards them with awe and more than a little unease. 
EUGENE 
Everything you need to last you two lifetimes. 
EUGENE points out an extra specimen of semen in the first 
refrigerator. 
EUGENE 
There's an extra specimen. I wish I 
could give it to her myself. 
(afterthought) 
But then, you always were better at being me. 
Eugene leads the way out of the refrigerated room. 
(CONTINUED) 
CONTINUEiD 
JERCME 
(struggling to come to terms 
w~th the d~scovery) 
Why have you done th~s? 
EUGENE 
(as he seals the mirrored door) 
In case you get back before I do. 
JEROME 
Where are you going? 
EUGENE 
(glanclng to the suitcases) 
I'm travelling too. :':1 
Jerome goes to question Eugene's travel plans but thinks better 
of it. He kneels before his friend and embraces him. 
JEROME 
Thank you. 
EUGENE 
I got the better end of the deal. I just 
lent you my body--you lent me your dream. 
Jerome smiles and hugs Eugene a final time. Eugene s·tuffs an 
envelope into Jerome's pocket. 
EUGENE 
(referring to the note, 
glancing heavenwards) 
Not until you're upstairs. 
'. Jerome exits. Eugene watches him go. 
INT. GATTACA -DEPARTURE LOUNGE. NIGHT. 
JEROME enters a large holding area along with his other eleven 
CREW MEMBERS. 
Jerome's heart sinks as he recognizes LAMAR, greeting the crew 
for one final unexpected substance test. His colleagues 
groan good-naturedly but it is clearly far more than an 
inconvenience to Jerome. He looks towards the door he has just 
entered but there is no way back. One by one the crew are 
ushered behind a screen. Sefore he can think of a way out, It 
is Jerome's turn. He enters the cubicle. (CONTINUED) 
• CONTINUED 
JEROME 
(as he takes the plastic cup from Lamar) 
What's this, Lamar? 
New policy. 112 
From behind, we see Jerome unzip his fly. However for once 
Jerome does not urinate on cue -unused to operating his own 
equipment in front of the physician. 
LAMAR 
(intrigued by the 
out-of-character discharge) 
Flight got you nervous? 
JEROME 
There's a problem, Lamar. 
LAMAR 
(apparently not listening) 
Did I ever tell you about my son, Jerome? He '.s 
a b~g fan of yours. He wants to apply here. . 
Jerome realizes he has no choice. Resigned to his fate, he 
begins to fill the cup. 
JEROME 
(as he urinates) 
Just remember, Lamar, I could have gone up 
and back and nobody would have been the wiser--
LAMAR (cutting him off) 
--Unfortunately my son's not all that they 
promised. But then, who knows what he could do. 
Lamar takes the cup from Jerome in his gloved hand. Jerome 
anxiously watches his sample poured into the analyzer. 
Confirming Jerome's worst fears, the face of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT 
appears on the computer screen. However Lamar does not look at 
the screen. He stares Jerome in the eye. 
LAMAR 
For future reference--
(a brief glance to where 
Jerome has just zipped his fly) 
--righthanded men don't hold it with their left. It's just one of those things. (CONTINUED) 
·-
• 113 
CONTINUED 
Never looking at the screen. Lamar presses a button marked. 
·VALID- . 
LAHAR 
(knowing smile) 
Have a safe trip, Vincent. 
Jerome exits up a long enclosed escalator, realizing that Lamar 
has known all along. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. NIGHT. 
EUGENE knocks back a vodka. With a certain reverence he places 
his silver medal around his neck. 
INT. ESCALATOR. NIGHT. 
At the top of a lon~ escalator, the door to a craft is secured. 
INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM._ -NIGHT. 
Eugene's wheelchair. empty, sits beside the door of the 
incinerator, also secured. 
EXT. LAUNCHPAD. NIGHT. 
A CLOSE UP of the flame of a rocket's engines igniting -the 
ball of fire engulfs the launchpad -filling the screen. 
INT. EUGENE' 5 CONDOMINIUM -INCINERATOR. NIGHT . 
Inside the incinerator another ball of 
engulfing the unseen figure of EUGENE. 
around his neck, melting In the fierce 
EXT. GATTACA -LAUNCHPAD. NIGHT. fire -this 
We glimpse 
blaze. time 
the medal 
As we have seen so often in the past, a rocket launches into 
the sky over Gattaca -however on this occasion it carries 
Jerome. 
• 114 
INT. SPACECRAFT. NIGHT. 
~e focus on JEROME's face -seeing little if any of the craft. 
Jerome's eyes are closed. His head is still -alarrrungly stlil. 
Could the launch itself have been too much for him? He hear the 
thoughts in his head. 
JEROME (VO) 
We came from che scars so chey say, now ic's cime co go back. If I was conceived 
coday, I would noc gec beyond eighc cells, 
and yec here I am. In a way chey were 
righc, I don'c have che hearc for chis world. 
(pause) 
The quescion is, why I am having so much 
trouble dying? 
Jerome's eyes blink open. He holds the letter from Eugene in 
his hand. It contains no words, merely a lock of EUGENE'S hair 
-for once preserved solely for its sentimental value. The 
hair, weightless, floats off the page. 
We focus on a porthole 'looking out upon a starscape. 
A STARSCAPE 
As we pan across the constellations, a title is superimposed 
upon the starscape: 
In a few short years, scientists will 
have completed the Human Genome Project, 
the mapping of all the genes that make 
up a human being. 
After 4 billion years of evolution by the 
slow and clumsy method of natural selection, 
we have now evolved to the point where we 
can direct our own evolution. 
The first title is replaced in the heavens by a second title. 
If only we had aquired chis knowledge 
sooner, the following people would never 
have been born: 
A succession of portraits and photographs of RENOWNED and 
HISTORIC FIGURES fades in and out of the constellations -the 
accompanying titles list their affliction rather than their 
accomplishments. 
(CONTINUED) 
.. 
, CONTINUED 
HOMER 
51~"'ld from blrch 
:;A?OLECN SONAPARTE 
Epllepc~c 
COLE'!'I'E 
Arr:hrir:ic 
LOU GERHIG 
Amyor:rophic Lateral Sclerosis 
(~cu Gerhl g 's Di sease) 
RITA HAYWORTH 
A~zhelmer's Disease 
HELEN KELLER 
51 ~nd and deaf 
STEPHEN HAWKING 
~ou Gerhig's Disease 
-JACKIE JO.YNER-KERSEE 
Asthmatic 
CHARLES DARWIN 
Chronic invalid 1:5 
The face of Charles Darwin fades off and anoeher eiele appears 
oue of ehe sears. 
Even Charles Darwin, che man who told of 
the survival of che fictest, numbered 
amongst our frailest. 
~e title fades off and is replaced by one final eitle in the 
nl.qht sky. 
Of course. the ocher birth that would 
surely never have taken place is your own. 
CUT TO BLACK 
